{"Precursor Cell Lymphoblastic Leukemia-Lymphoma": [{"pmid": "35727338", "year": "2022", "title": "Efficacy and safety of nelarabine in patients with relapsed or refractory T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia: a systematic review and meta-analysis.", "summary": "Nelarabine is approved for the treatment of relapsed/refractory (R/R) T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL) patients who relapse following at least two different chemotherapy regimens. Previous studies have evaluated the efficacy and safety of nelarabine with chemotherapy in the treatment of R/R T-ALL. However, the results are inconsistent. This review aimed to summarize findings on efficacy and safety data in R/R T-ALL patients administered with the drug nelarabine. The present review conducted a comprehensive search of MEDLINE (via PubMed), WHO Clinical Trial Registry, Clinical Trials.gov, and Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials until 15 January 2022. Thirteen studies fulfilled the eligibility criteria with a total of 2508 patients. The efficacy of nelarabine was studied in terms of complete remission (CR) and partial remission (PR). Included studies reported overall random-effects pooled prevalence of CR and PR were 37.2 (95% CI: 22.8, 51.5) and 10.2 (95% CI: 4.9, 15.5), respectively. Most common adverse events associated with nelarabine were neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, fatigue, infections, and reversible peripheral neuropathy. Nelarabine is being used as salvage therapy as a bridge to hematopoietic stem cell transplantation and the findings of this meta-analysis indicate that it is an effective and safe treatment to be used in addition to the first-line treatment for R/R T-ALL.", "substances": ["Arabinonucleosides", "nelarabine"]}, {"pmid": "34535829", "year": "2022", "title": "Maternal antibiotics exposure during pregnancy and the risk of acute lymphoblastic leukemia in childhood: a systematic review and meta-analysis.", "summary": "Many epidemiological studies have assessed the association between maternal antibiotic exposure during pregnancy and childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), while reaching inconsistent conclusions. In order to clarify the association, the publications in English that provided information about maternal antibiotic exposure during pregnancy and ALL risk in offspring in the PubMed, Embase, and Web of Science databases were systematically reviewed and we performed a meta-analysis using the random-effect models. Results of pooled analysis showed that maternal antibiotic intake during pregnancy is not associated with childhood ALL risk (pooled odds ratio 1.07, 95% confidence interval 0.98-1.18) without significant heterogeneity (I<sup>2</sup>\u2009=\u200913.7%, P\u2009=\u20090.310). This finding was consistent across subgroups stratified by type of study design, measurement method, sample size, study quality, and pregnancy stage. Our findings suggest that maternal antibiotic consumption during pregnancy was not associated with ALL risk in progeny. Further investigations are needed to confirm the results and assess any risk differences of ALL by types of antibiotics.Conclusions: Our findings suggest that maternal antibiotics consumption during pregnancy was not associated with ALL risk in progeny. Further investigations are needed to confirm the results and assess any risk differences of ALL by types of antibiotics. What is Known: \u2022 It is not unusual for pregnant woman to receive antibiotics for local or systematic use during pregnancy. \u2022 The conclusions regarding the associations between maternal antibiotics use during pregnancy and childhood ALL risk were inconsistent. What is New: \u2022 Maternal antibiotics consumption during pregnancy was not associated with the increased ALL risk in offspring. \u2022 Further laboratory evidences are needed to confirm the results.", "substances": ["Anti-Bacterial Agents"]}, {"pmid": "36329498", "year": "2022", "title": "Oral-visceral iatrogenic Kaposi sarcoma following treatment for acute lymphoblastic leukemia: a case report and review of the\u00a0literature.", "summary": "Visceral Kaposi sarcoma as a second malignancy may occur after pediatric acute lymphoblastic leukemia treatment, but its rarity makes it unlikely to raise suspicion among clinicians, thus precluding early diagnosis and treatment. We recommend routine evaluation for Kaposi sarcoma lesions in children undergoing long-term surveillance following treatment for childhood acute leukemia.", "substances": ["Vincristine"]}, {"pmid": "36114134", "year": "2022", "title": "SOHO State of the Art Updates and Next Questions | Asparaginase-Understanding and Overcoming Toxicities in Adults with ALL.", "summary": "The adoption of pediatric-inspired regimens in young adults with newly diagnosed acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) has significantly improved their survival outcomes. Pediatric-inspired regimens in ALL rely profoundly on delivering adequate dosing of non-myelosuppressive drugs of which asparaginase, a bacterial derived agent, is a key component. Asparaginase therapy is associated with a spectrum of unique toxicities that are observed more frequently in adult patients compared to children with ALL, and this observation has contributed to the reluctance of adult oncologists to administer the drug to their patients. Understanding the breadth of asparaginase toxicity and the associated risk factors may help in preventing severe manifestations and allow safer treatment for adults with ALL. In this review, we will discuss the different formulations of asparaginase and the appropriate dosing in adults with ALL. We will further discuss the frequency and risk factors for individual toxicities of asparaginase along with strategies for their prevention and management.", "substances": ["Asparaginase", "Antineoplastic Agents"]}, {"pmid": "35622074", "year": "2022", "title": "Monoclonal antibodies: new chance in the management of B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia.", "summary": "Monoclonal antibodies are proven to be a promising immunotherapeutic strategy to improve ALL patients' outcome in the long term. There's still a need for individualized treatment with effective and well-tolerated medicines.<b>Trial registration:</b> ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NCT01363128.<b>Trial registration:</b> ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NCT01466179.<b>Trial registration:</b> ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NCT02013167.<b>Trial registration:</b> ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NCT02000427.<b>Trial registration:</b> ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NCT01564784.<b>Trial registration:</b> ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NCT03677596.<b>Trial registration:</b> ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NCT01363297.<b>Trial registration:</b> ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NCT02981628.<b>Trial registration:</b> ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NCT03094611.<b>Trial registration:</b> ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NCT01371630.<b>Trial registration:</b> ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NCT04224571.<b>Trial registration:</b> ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NCT02458014.<b>Trial registration:</b> ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NCT04546399.<b>Trial registration:</b> ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NCT02879695.<b>Trial registration:</b> ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NCT03913559.<b>Trial registration:</b> ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NCT03441061.<b>Trial registration:</b> ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NCT03739814.<b>Trial registration:</b> ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NCT02877303.<b>Trial registration:</b> ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NCT03698552.<b>Trial registration:</b> ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NCT04601584.<b>Trial registration:</b> ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NCT04684147.<b>Trial registration:</b> ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NCT04681105.", "substances": ["Antibodies, Monoclonal", "Antineoplastic Agents", "Antineoplastic Agents, Immunological", "Inotuzumab Ozogamicin"]}, {"pmid": "35939887", "year": "2022", "title": "Efficacy of ruxolitinib in acute lymphoblastic leukemia: A systematic review.", "summary": "Philadelphia-like acute lymphoblastic leukemia (Ph-like ALL) is a high-risk molecular subtype with a gene expression profile similar to Philadelphia-positive ALL, but not harboring the BCR-ABL1 gene fusion. We aimed to investigate the efficacy of target therapy with the Janus kinase inhibitor, ruxolitinib, in patients with Ph-like ALL and molecular signature of JAK-STAT signaling pathway. A systematic search of the literature was performed to identify reports concerning administration of ruxolitinib in Ph-like ALL patients. Additionally, Polish Pediatric ALL registries were searched for patients with Ph-like ALL treated with ruxolitinib. Extracted information included epidemiological background, somatic aberrations, treatment response, and patient outcome. After PubMed database search, twelve patients were identified, and one was identified in the Polish Pediatric ALL registry. In nine patients gene fusions affecting JAK2 (n\u00a0=\u00a07) and EPOR (n\u00a0=\u00a02) were detected. Surface overexpression of CRLF2 and IKZF1 deletions were observed in two and three patients, respectively. Induction failure occurred in all the patients. Therapy with ruxolitinib led to complete (n\u00a0=\u00a07) and partial (n\u00a0=\u00a02) remission, in three individuals no information was found. Based on the limited number of studies describing the efficacy of ruxolitinib as an additional compound administrated with standard ALL therapy, we conclude that this approach can be considered in patients with aberrations activating JAK-STAT pathway.", "substances": ["Janus Kinase Inhibitors", "Nitriles", "Pyrazoles", "Pyrimidines", "STAT Transcription Factors", "ruxolitinib", "Janus Kinases"]}, {"pmid": "35941070", "year": "2022", "title": "SOHO State of the Art Updates and Next Questions | Novel Approaches to Pediatric T-cell ALL and T-Lymphoblastic Lymphoma.", "summary": "While outcomes for children with T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL) and T-lymphoblastic lymphoma (T-LL) have improved significantly with contemporary therapy, outcomes for patients with relapsed or refractory (r/r) disease remain dismal. Improved risk stratification and the incorporation of novel therapeutics have the potential to improve outcomes further in T-ALL/T-LL by limiting relapse risk and improving salvage rates for those with r/r disease. In this review we will discuss the challenges and new opportunities for improved risk stratification in T-ALL and T-LL. We will further discuss the recent incorporation of the novel therapeutics nelarabine and bortezomib into front-line therapy for children with T-ALL and T-LL. Finally, we will address new classes of targeted small molecule inhibitors, immunotherapeutics, and chimeric antigen receptor T-cell therapies under investigation in r/r T-ALL and T-LL.", "substances": ["Receptors, Chimeric Antigen", "Bortezomib"]}, {"pmid": "36142863", "year": "2022", "title": "The Emerging Role of Venetoclax-Based Treatments in Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia.", "summary": "Venetoclax, a B-cell lymphoma (BCL-2) inhibitor, in combination with hypomethylating agents has become the new standard of care in elderly and unfit patients with acute myeloid leukemia, with significantly improved overall survival and quality of life. Studies of venetoclax combined with high-dose chemotherapy are emerging with evidence of higher rates of molecular remission. Recently, a growing number of publications bring forth the use of venetoclax in patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). In the current review, we present the biological rationale of BCL-2 inhibition in ALL, how the interplay of BH3 proteins modulate the response and the current clinical experience with various combinations.", "substances": ["Bridged Bicyclo Compounds, Heterocyclic", "Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-bcl-2", "Sulfonamides", "venetoclax"]}, {"pmid": "36210686", "year": "2022", "title": "T-cell Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia in an Infant: A Case Report and Review of Literature.", "summary": "A high index of suspicion of acute leukemia in infants presenting with atypical clinical and laboratory features is of paramount importance to avoid the delay in diagnosis, and treatment of this rare, yet extremely aggressive entity. We report a case of a 10 months infant presenting with a one-month history of fever and restlessness along with complete blood count (CBC) findings of bicytopenia, borderline leukocytosis, leucoerythroblastic picture, and reactive lymphocytes. Considering infection, the patient was kept on antibiotics and symptomatic treatment. However, the persistence of findings led to bone marrow aspirate which revealed T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL) on flow cytometry. Infant ALL is almost B cell phenotype and T-ALL is hardly ever reported. Knowledge and recognition of these cases can help to improve awareness regarding consideration of this rare phenotype of leukemia irrespective of clinical presentation and age of the patient. Key Words: Acute lymphoblastic leukemia, Infant leukemia, Flow cytometry.", "substances": ["Anti-Bacterial Agents"]}, {"pmid": "35700365", "year": "2022", "title": "Drug Induced Diabetes Mellitus in Pediatric Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia: Approach to Diagnosis and Management.", "summary": "Corticosteroids and l -asparaginase used in the treatment of pediatric acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) can cause drug-induced diabetes mellitus (DIDM). DIDM can lead to dyselectrolytemia, a higher risk of infections including cellulitis, bacteremia, fungemia, and a higher incidence of febrile neutropenia and may have an impact on the outcome of ALL. Literature on the management of DIDM among children with ALL is sparse and the diagnostic criteria for pediatric diabetes should be carefully applied considering the acute and transient nature of DIDM during ALL therapy. Insulin remains the standard of care for DIDM management and the choice of Insulin regimen (stand-alone Neutral Protamine Hagedorn or basal bolus) should be based on the type and dose of steroids used for ALL and the pattern of hyperglycemia. A modest glycemic control (postmeal 140 to 180\u2009mg/dL, premeal <140\u2009mg/dL) to prevent complications of hyperglycemia, as well as hypoglycemia, would be the general approach. This review is intended to suggest evidence-based practical guidance in the diagnosis and management of DIDM during pediatric ALL therapy.", "substances": ["Blood Glucose", "Hypoglycemic Agents", "Insulin"]}, {"pmid": "35654820", "year": "2022", "title": "Maintenance therapy for acute lymphoblastic leukemia: basic science and clinical translations.", "summary": "Maintenance therapy (MT) with oral methotrexate (MTX) and 6-mercaptopurine (6-MP) is essential for the cure of acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). MTX and 6-MP interfere with nucleotide synthesis and salvage pathways. The primary cytotoxic mechanism involves the incorporation of thioguanine nucleotides (TGNs) into DNA (as DNA-TG), which may be enhanced by the inhibition of de novo purine synthesis by other MTX/6-MP metabolites. Co-medication during MT is common. Although Pneumocystis jirovecii prophylaxis appears safe, the benefit of glucocorticosteroid/vincristine pulses in improving survival and of allopurinol to moderate 6-MP pharmacokinetics remains uncertain. Numerous genetic polymorphisms influence the pharmacology, efficacy, and toxicity (mainly myelosuppression and hepatotoxicity) of MTX and thiopurines. Thiopurine S-methyltransferase (encoded by TPMT) decreases TGNs but increases methylated 6-MP metabolites (MeMPs); similarly, nudix hydrolase 15 (encoded by NUDT15) also decreases TGNs available for DNA incorporation. Loss-of-function variants in both genes are currently used to guide MT, but do not fully explain the inter-patient variability in thiopurine toxicity. Because of the large inter-individual variations in MTX/6-MP bioavailability and metabolism, dose adjustments are traditionally guided by the degree of myelosuppression, but this does not accurately reflect treatment intensity. DNA-TG is a common downstream metabolite of MTX/6-MP combination chemotherapy, and a higher level of DNA-TG has been associated with a lower relapse hazard, leading to the development of the Thiopurine Enhanced ALL Maintenance (TEAM) strategy-the addition of low-dose (2.5-12.5\u2009mg/m<sup>2</sup>/day) 6-thioguanine to the 6-MP/MTX backbone-that is currently being tested in a randomized ALLTogether1 trial (EudraCT: 2018-001795-38). Mutations in the thiopurine and MTX metabolism pathways, and in the mismatch repair genes have been identified in early ALL relapses, providing valuable insights to assist the development of strategies to detect imminent relapse, to facilitate relapse salvage therapy, and even to bring about changes in frontline ALL therapy to mitigate this relapse risk.", "substances": ["Mercaptopurine", "Methyltransferases", "Thioguanine", "Methotrexate"]}, {"pmid": "35507688", "year": "2022", "title": "Approval of brexucabtagene autoleucel for adults with relapsed and refractory acute lymphocytic leukemia.", "summary": "In October 2021, brexucabtagene autoleucel became the first anti-CD19 chimeric antigen receptor T-cell product to receive approval from the Food and Drug Administration to treat adults with relapsed and refractory B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia. The approval is based on results from the Zuma-3 trial and significantly widens treatment options for this patient population. In this article, we review outcomes from this study and its implications.", "substances": ["Antigens, CD19", "Receptors, Antigen, T-Cell", "Receptors, Chimeric Antigen", "brexucabtagene autoleucel"]}, {"pmid": "34996739", "year": "2022", "title": "SOHO State of the Art Updates and Next Questions: Mini-Hyper-CVD Combinations for Older Adults: Results of Recent Trials and a Glimpse into the Future.", "summary": "Acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) is an aggressive blood cancer that affects both children and adults. Although the majority of children diagnosed with ALL are now cured and outcomes are improving for younger adults, older adults diagnosed with ALL usually succumb to their disease. Traditional chemotherapy regimens are poorly tolerated and ineffective in most older adults. Recently, novel chemotherapy agents such as inotuzumab ozogamicin and venetoclax have been successfully combined with dose reduced chemotherapy (mini-hyper-CVD) with promising results. Further study is needed to define the optimal combination and sequencing of novel agents and chemotherapy for different patient populations. This review discusses the challenge of treating older adults with traditional chemotherapy, experience to date with novel agents in combination with mini-hyper-CVD, as well as future directions and unanswered questions.", "substances": ["Antibodies, Monoclonal, Humanized", "Antineoplastic Agents", "Inotuzumab Ozogamicin"]}, {"pmid": "34991420", "year": "2022", "title": "The treatment landscape for Relapsed Refractory B Acute Lymphoblastic Leukaemia (ALL).", "summary": "The last eight\u2009years have seen a rapid expansion of salvage options for patients with relapsed refractory (RR) acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). The efficacy of targeted approaches with blinatumomab and Inotuzumab ozogamicin (InO), outweigh that of conventional chemotherapeutic regimens, and the reduced toxicity profile has also translated into higher transplant realization rates. Factors influencing the sequential use of these two antibodies include the preference for InO in those with high disease burden, while blinatumomab is a superior agent for attaining MRD responses in low disease burden groups. InO should not be used first in those with significant liver disease. Most impressive is the advent of chimeric antigen receptor cell therapy (CAR-T), a curative therapy in a significant proportion of younger patients with RR-ALL. Careful consideration is now required in the selection of relapse therapies; this review summarizes current available strategies and how to navigate the treatment landscape for RR ALL.", "substances": ["Inotuzumab Ozogamicin"]}, {"pmid": "35670704", "year": "2022", "title": "Asparaginase <i>Erwinia chrysanthemi</i> for acute lymphoblastic leukemia and lymphoblastic lymphoma.", "summary": "Acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) is a neoplastic disease characterized by the malignant proliferation of lymphoid cells in the blood and bone marrow. It accounts for approximately 75% of childhood leukemia. Lymphoblastic lymphoma (LBL) is a type of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma characterized by rapid growth and highly aggressive characteristics that occurs most commonly in adolescents and young adults. Asparaginase is primarily used to treat patients with ALL or LBL. Because allergic reactions occur in patients treated with bacterial-derived asparaginase, it is important to develop an alternative asparaginase preparation for patients allergic to asparaginase. Recombinant asparaginase <i>Erwinia chrysanthemi</i>-rywn (JZP-458) is a recombinant <i>Erwinia</i> asparaginase that uses a novel <i>Pseudomonas fluorescens</i> expression platform in the production process. JZP-458 has the same amino acid sequence as <i>E. chrysanthemi</i>-derived asparaginase (ERW) and its in vitro activity is similar to that of ERW. JZP-458 is highly efficacious in patients allergic to asparaginase. Data from a phase I clinical trial indicated that following the intramuscular or intravenous administration of JZP-458 to volunteers, serum asparaginase activity \u2265 0.1 IU/mL was observed in 100% of the volunteers 72 hours after administration. In this review, we summarize the mechanism of action and the related research data obtained with JZP-458 for the treatment of ALL or LBL.", "substances": ["Antineoplastic Agents", "Asparaginase"]}, {"pmid": "35848695", "year": "2022", "title": "Chimeric antigen receptor T cell: A cancer immunotherapy.", "summary": "During present decade, targeted drug therapy has been the epitome for treatment of cancer. Drugs like Imatinib, a tyrosine kinase receptor inhibitor and Trastuzumab, an human epidermal growth factor receptor-2/neu inhibitor, has been developed and accepted widely for management of chronic myeloid leukaemia and breast cancer respectively. Recent development among the various immunotherapies is adoptive cell transfer (ACT). Research on development of various types of ACT immunotherapy is going on, but so far, Chimeric antigen receptors T cell therapy (CAR-T) has achieved the maximum advancement in terms of clinical development. CARs are the modified receptors that integrates specificity and responsiveness onto immune cells to enhance the recognition of cancer cells. For the CAR-T, the T cells are sequestered from a blood of a participant via apheresis. DNA of particular antigen is injected into harvested T cells to generate CARs on cell surface. Following surface manifestation of receptors, multiplication is carried out in enriched media followed by infusion into patient. After infusion, CAR-T cells targeted and exterminate the cancer cells. Initially, only two drugs targeting CD19 as genetically modified autologous immunotherapy has been approved in CAR-T therapy i.e., Tisagenlecleucel and Axicabtagene Ciloleucel, which are discussed in detail in current review. Recently two more drugs got approval i.e., brexucabtagene ciloleucel and lisocabtagene maraleucel, both are directed against CD19, similar to tisagenlecleucel. CAR-T cell therapy is approved for management of Acute Lymphoblastic Leukaemia, Chronic Lymphocytic Leukaemia and lymphoma. CAR-T cell persistence responsible for effectiveness and safety concerns are barriers for their wide application among patients. Growth factor receptors and cluster of differentiation are new drugs targets that are being explored as effective immunotherapy against cancers.", "substances": ["Antigens, CD19", "Receptors, Chimeric Antigen"]}, {"pmid": "35628334", "year": "2022", "title": "Neurotoxicity Associated with Treatment of Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia Chemotherapy and Immunotherapy.", "summary": "Immunotherapy is a milestone in the treatment of poor-prognosis pediatric acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) and is expected to improve treatment outcomes and reduce doses of conventional chemotherapy without compromising the effectiveness of the therapy. However, both chemotherapy and immunotherapy cause side effects, including neurological ones. Acute neurological complications occur in 3.6-11% of children treated for ALL. The most neurotoxical chemotherapeutics are L-asparaginase (L-ASP), methotrexate (MTX), vincristine (VCR), and nelarabine (Ara-G). Neurotoxicity associated with methotrexate (MTX-NT) occurs in 3-7% of children treated for ALL and is characterized by seizures, stroke-like symptoms, speech disturbances, and encephalopathy. Recent studies indicate that specific polymorphisms in genes related to neurogenesis may have a predisposition to MTX toxicity. One of the most common complications associated with CAR T-cell therapy is immune effector cell-associated neurotoxicity syndrome (ICANS). Mechanisms of neurotoxicity in CAR T-cell therapy are still unknown and may be due to disruption of the blood-brain barrier and the effects of elevated cytokine levels on the central nervous system (CNS). In this review, we present an analysis of the current knowledge on the mechanisms of neurotoxicity of standard chemotherapy and the targeted therapy in children with ALL.", "substances": ["Immunologic Factors", "Asparaginase", "Methotrexate"]}, {"pmid": "35368047", "year": "2022", "title": "Infectious complications of targeted drugs and biotherapies in acute leukemia. Clinical practice guidelines by the European Conference on Infections in Leukemia (ECIL), a joint venture of the European Group for Blood and Marrow Transplantation (EBMT), the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC), the International Immunocompromised Host Society (ICHS) and the European Leukemia Net (ELN).", "summary": "The 9th web-based European Conference on Infections in Leukemia (ECIL-9), held September 16-17, 2021, reviewed the risk of infections and febrile neutropenia associated with more recently approved immunotherapeutic agents and molecular targeted drugs for the treatment of acute myeloid leukemia (AML) and acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). Novel antibody based treatment approaches (inotuzumab ozogamicin, gemtuzumab ozogamicin, flotetuzumab), isocitrate dehydrogenases inhibitors (ivosidenib, enasidenib, olutasidenib), FLT3 kinase inhibitors (gilteritinib, midostaurin, quizartinib), a hedgehog inhibitor (glasdegib) as well as a BCL2 inhibitor (venetoclax) were reviewed with respect to their mode of action, their immunosuppressive potential, their current approval and the infectious complications and febrile neutropenia reported from clinical studies. Evidence-based recommendations for prevention and management of infectious complications and specific alerts regarding the potential for drug-drug interactions were developed and discussed in a plenary session with the panel of experts until consensus was reached. The set of recommendations was posted on the ECIL website for a month for comments from members of EBMT, EORTC, ICHS and ELN before final approval by the panelists. While a majority of these agents are not associated with a significantly increased risk when used as monotherapy, caution is required with combination therapy such as venetoclax plus hypomethylating agents, gemtuzumab ozogamicin plus cytotoxic drugs or midostaurin added to conventional AML chemotherapy.", "substances": ["Antibodies, Monoclonal"]}, {"pmid": "35031177", "year": "2022", "title": "Optimizing use of L-asparaginase-based treatment of adults with acute lymphoblastic leukemia.", "summary": "Acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) is a malignancy of lymphoid progenitor cells occurring at an annual incidence rate of approximately 1.1 to 2.1 per 100,000 person-years globally. Approximately 40% of annual ALL cases occur in adults, yet estimated 5-year overall survival rates are about 40% to 50% in adults (and vary broadly by age) compared with 90% in children. Although the addition and/or intensification of asparaginase as a key treatment strategy for pediatric ALL is well recognized, further research is needed to clarify the benefit/risk ratio in adult patients with ALL. This review emphasizes the importance of efficient management of adverse events to increase asparaginase efficacy and explores novel strategies for optimizing asparaginase treatment, including new formulations of asparaginase, pharmacokinetic-based dosing, and pharmacogenetic profiling. Upcoming results of adult ALL trials should further clarify the role of asparaginase, building on the results of the large NOPHO 2008, CALGB 10403, GRAALL-2005, GMALL 07/2003, and UKALL14 trials.", "substances": ["Antineoplastic Agents", "Asparaginase"]}, {"pmid": "35007767", "year": "2022", "title": "The changing landscape of treatment options in childhood acute lymphoblastic leukaemia.", "summary": "New paediatric acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL) treatments have been developed and innovative products are in the pipeline. However, despite many active clinical trials, bridging bench science to clinical development to authorised medicines remains challenging. Research in first-line treatment continues to focus on multidrug chemotherapy with the potential addition of new targeted molecules being studied. Research in second- and third-line treatment represents a shift from cytotoxic intensification to an area of precision medicine through emergent innovative and immuno-oncology products. The collaborative research model in ALL involving different stakeholders should intensify to facilitate bench-to-bedside clinical translation for the benefit of patients.", "substances": ["Antineoplastic Agents"]}, {"pmid": "35485484", "year": "2022", "title": "[Mechanisms of development of side effects and drug resistance to asparaginase and ways to overcome them].", "summary": "Asparaginase is one of the most important chemotherapeutic agents against acute lymphoblastic leukemia, the most common form of blood cancer. To date, both asparaginases from E. coli and Dickeya dadantii (formerly known as Erwinia chrysanthemi), used in hematology, induce chemoresistance in cancer cells and side effects in the form of hypersensitivity of immune reactions. Leukemic cells may be resistant to asparaginase due to the increased activity of asparagine synthetase and other mechanisms associated with resistance to asparaginase. Therefore, the search for new sources of L-asparaginases with improved pharmacological properties remains a promising and prospective study. This article discusses the mechanisms of development of resistance and drug resistance to L-asparaginase, as well as possible ways to overcome them.", "substances": ["Asparaginase"]}, {"pmid": "35193450", "year": "2022", "title": "Pharmacotherapeutic management of T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia in adults: an update of the literature.", "summary": "Intensifying chemotherapy may reduce the incidence of recurrent disease in adult patients, but it has not come without a cost. Novel agents with selective T-ALL activity (e.g. nelarabine) may improve survival in some patient subsets. Due to modern genomic and transcriptomic techniques, various novel potential targets might change the treatment landscape in the next few years and will, hopefully alongside with cellular therapies, augment the therapeutic armamentarium in the near future.", "substances": ["Antineoplastic Agents"]}, {"pmid": "34966101", "year": "2022", "title": "Posterior Reversible Encephalopathy Syndrome in the Setting of Asparaginase-associated Pancreatitis in 2 Pediatric Patients With Acute Leukemia.", "summary": "Asparaginase, a critical component of current pediatric acute leukemia treatment protocols, is associated with a number of serious side effects, one of which is pancreatitis. Pancreatitis can result in significant morbidity and mortality from necrosis, pseudocyst formation, hemorrhage, systemic inflammation, intestinal perforation, and sepsis. Another rare complication of pancreatitis is posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome, likely mediated by systemic inflammation secondary to pancreatic autodigestion and proinflammatory cytokine-mediated vascular endothelial damage. Here, we review this association in the literature and report 2 pediatric patients with leukemia who developed posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome in the setting of asparaginase-associated pancreatitis.", "substances": ["Asparaginase"]}, {"pmid": "35563051", "year": "2022", "title": "miRNAs in Lymphocytic Leukaemias-The miRror of Drug Resistance.", "summary": "Refractory disease and relapse remain the main causes of cancer therapy failure. Refined risk stratification, treatment regimens and improved early diagnosis and detection of minimal residual disease have increased cure rates in malignancies like childhood acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL) to 90%. Nevertheless, overall survival in the context of drug resistance remains poor. The regulatory role of micro RNAs (miRNAs) in cell differentiation, homeostasis and tumorigenesis has been under extensive investigation in different cancers. There is accumulating data demonstrating the significance of miRNAs for therapy outcomes in lymphoid malignancies and some direct demonstrations of the interplay between these small molecules and drug response. Here, we summarise miRNAs' impact on chemotherapy resistance in adult and paediatric ALL and chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL). The main focus of this review is on the modulation of particular signaling pathways like PI3K-AKT, transcription factors such as NF-\u03baB, and apoptotic mediators, all of which are bona fide and pivotal elements orchestrating the survival of malignant lymphocytic cells. Finally, we discuss the attractive strategy of using mimics, antimiRs and other molecular approaches pointing at miRNAs as promising therapeutic targets. Such novel strategies to circumvent ALL and CLL resistance networks may potentially improve patients' responses and survival rates.", "substances": ["MicroRNAs"]}, {"pmid": "35121370", "year": "2022", "title": "Targeted inhibitors and antibody immunotherapies: Novel therapies for paediatric leukaemia and lymphoma.", "summary": "Despite improved outcomes achieved in the last decades for children with newly diagnosed leukaemia and lymphoma, treatment of patients with refractory/relapsed disease remains a challenge. The cure rate is still unsatisfactory and often achieved at the cost of significant morbidity. Exploring treatment with novel agents should offer less toxic therapeutic options, without compromising efficacy. Bispecific and antibody-drug conjugates targeting CD19 and CD22 (blinatumomab and inotuzumab ozogamicin) play an important role in the treatment of relapsed and refractory B-cell precursor acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (BCP-ALL); antibodies targeting CD123 and CD38 are also under investigation for acute myeloid leukaemia (AML) and T-ALL, respectively. Targeted therapy with small molecules is of primary importance for specific genetic subtypes, such as BCR-ABL-positive ALL, FLT3-ITD AML\u00a0and anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK)-positive anaplastic large cell lymphoma. KMT2A-directed targeted therapy with menin inhibitors holds promise to be of relevance in KMT2A-rearranged leukaemias, known to have dismal prognosis. Target inhibition in cellular pathways such as BCL-2, RAS, MEK, Bruton's tyrosine kinase, JAK-STAT or CDK4/CDK6 inhibition may be suitable for different diseases with common mutated pathways. Nevertheless, development and approval of new agents for paediatric cancers lags behind adult therapeutic options. New regulations were implemented to accelerate drug development for children. Considering the number of oncology medicinal products available for adults and the rarity of paediatric cancers, prioritisation based on scientific evidence and medical need, as well as international collaboration, is critical. Herein, we review the current status of drug development for children with leukaemia and lymphoma, excluding cellular therapy despite its well-known significance.", "substances": ["Inotuzumab Ozogamicin"]}, {"pmid": "35107320", "year": "2022", "title": "Hypersensitivity reactions to asparaginase therapy in acute lymphoblastic leukemia: immunology and clinical consequences.", "summary": "Asparaginase is commonly used in combination therapy of acute lymphoblastic leukemia. However, as an immunogenic protein, hypersensitivity reactions (HSRs) during asparaginase therapy are frequent, indicating the development of anti-asparaginase antibodies. These can be associated with diminished clinical effectiveness, including poorer survival. Therapeutic drug monitoring of serum asparaginase activity to confirm complete asparagine depletion is therefore crucial during asparaginase therapy. Switching to alternative types of asparaginase is recommended for patients experiencing HSRs or silent inactivation; those with HSRs or silent inactivation on <i>Escherichia coli-</i>derived asparaginases should switch to another preparation. However, prior global shortages of <i>Erwinia</i> asparaginase highlight the importance of alternative non-<i>E.</i> <i>coli-</i>derived asparaginase, including recombinant <i>Erwinia</i> asparaginase.", "substances": ["Antineoplastic Agents", "Immunoglobulin M", "Asparaginase"]}, {"pmid": "36274227", "year": "2022", "title": "Tyrosine Kinase Inhibitors for Pediatric Leukemia: History and Current Status.", "summary": "Tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) block the activity of tyrosine kinases by competitive inhibition of ATP at the catalytic tyrosine kinase binding site and inhibit oncogenic signaling. One important target of TKIs is BCR-ABL1, which is constitutively activated in leukemia cells. In this review, we briefly describe the development of TKIs from the first generation to the third generation, and summarize their use in the treatment of chronic myeloid leukemia and acute lymphoblastic leukemia in children. We highlight several future directions in the development of TKIs for pediatric leukemia therapy. In conclusion, we focus on chronic myeloid leukemia and acute lymphoblastic leukemia as the examples of pediatric blood cancer that significantly benefit from TKIs-based target therapy. Further development of TKIs will allow us to better manage pediatric leukemia.", "substances": ["Fusion Proteins, bcr-abl", "Protein Kinase Inhibitors", "Tyrosine", "Adenosine Triphosphate"]}, {"pmid": "35409154", "year": "2022", "title": "Overcoming Steroid Resistance in Pediatric Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia-The State-of-the-Art Knowledge and Future Prospects.", "summary": "Acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) is the most common malignancy among children. Despite the enormous progress in ALL therapy, resulting in achieving a 5-year survival rate of up to 90%, the ambitious goal of reaching a 100% survival rate is still being pursued. A typical ALL treatment includes three phases: remission induction and consolidation and maintenance, preceded by a prednisone prephase. Poor prednisone response (PPR) is defined as the presence of \u22651.0 \u00d7 10<sup>9</sup> blasts/L in the peripheral blood on day eight of therapy and results in significantly frequent relapses and worse outcomes. Hence, identifying risk factors of steroid resistance and finding methods of overcoming that resistance may significantly improve patients' outcomes. A mitogen-activated protein kinase/extracellular signal-regulated kinase (MAPK-ERK) pathway seems to be a particularly attractive target, as its activation leads to steroid resistance via a phosphorylating Bcl-2-interacting mediator of cell death (BIM), which is crucial in the steroid-induced cell death. Several mutations causing activation of MAPK-ERK were discovered, notably the interleukin-7 receptor (IL-7R) pathway mutations in T-cell ALL and rat sarcoma virus (Ras) pathway mutations in precursor B-cell ALL. MAPK-ERK pathway inhibitors were demonstrated to enhance the results of dexamethasone therapy in preclinical ALL studies. This report summarizes steroids' mechanism of action, resistance to treatment, and prospects of steroids therapy in pediatric ALL.", "substances": ["Glucocorticoids", "Extracellular Signal-Regulated MAP Kinases", "Prednisone"]}, {"pmid": "35328487", "year": "2022", "title": "Resistance Mechanisms in Pediatric B-Cell Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia.", "summary": "Despite the rapid development of medicine, even nowadays, acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) is still a problem for pediatric clinicians. Modern medicine has reached a limit of curability even though the recovery rate exceeds 90%. Relapse occurs in around 20% of treated patients and, regrettably, 10% of diagnosed ALL patients are still incurable. In this article, we would like to focus on the treatment resistance and disease relapse of patients with B-cell leukemia in the context of prognostic factors of ALL. We demonstrate the mechanisms of the resistance to steroid therapy and Tyrosine Kinase Inhibitors and assess the impact of genetic factors on the treatment resistance, especially <i>TCF3::HLF</i> translocation. We compare therapeutic protocols and decipher how cancer cells become resistant to innovative treatments-including CAR-T-cell therapies and monoclonal antibodies. The comparisons made in our article help to bring closer the main factors of resistance in hematologic malignancies in the context of ALL.", "substances": ["Oncogene Proteins, Fusion"]}, {"pmid": "35195876", "year": "2022", "title": "Olverembatinib: First Approval.", "summary": "Olverembatinib (HQP1351) is an oral, third-generation BCR-ABL1 tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) developed by Ascentage Pharma for the treatment of chronic myeloid leukaemia (CML), acute myeloid leukaemia, acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL) and solid tumours, including gastrointestinal stromal tumours (GIST). Olverembatinib is an ATP binding-site inhibitor of wild type BCR-ABL1 kinase and a broad spectrum of BCR-ABL1 mutants, including mutant T315I, which confers resistance against all first- and second-generation TKIs. In November 2021, olverembatinib received its first approval in China for the treatment of adult patients with TKI-resistant chronic-phase CML (CML-CP) or accelerated-phase CML (CML-AP) harbouring the T315I mutation, as confirmed by a validated diagnostic test. Clinical studies are underway in the US for CML and precursor cell ALL, and in China for solid tumours, including GIST. This article summarizes the milestones in the development of olverembatinib leading to this first approval for the treatment of CML-CP or CML-AP.", "substances": ["Protein Kinase Inhibitors", "Fusion Proteins, bcr-abl"]}, {"pmid": "35122954", "year": "2022", "title": "Pediatric acute lymphoblastic leukemia management using multitargeting bioactive natural compounds: A systematic and critical review.", "summary": "Pediatric acute lymphoblastic leukemia (pALL), a malignancy of the lymphoid line of blood cells, accounts for a large percentage of all childhood leukemia cases. Although the 5-year survival rate for children with ALL has greatly improved over years, using chemotherapeutics as its first-line treatment still causes short- and long-term side effects. Furthermore, induction of toxicity and resistance, as well as the high cost, limit their application. Phytochemicals, with remarkable cancer preventive and chemotherapeutic characteristics, may serve as old solutions to new challenges. Bioactive plant secondary metabolites have exhibited promising antileukemic and adjunctive effects by targeting various molecular processes, including autophagy, cell cycle, angiogenesis, and extrinsic/intrinsic apoptotic pathways. Although numerous reports have shown that various plant secondary metabolites can interfere with the progression of malignancies, including leukemia, there was no comprehensive review article on the effect of phytochemicals on pALL. This systematic review aims to provide critical and cohesive analysis of the potential of various naturally-occurring plant secondary metabolites in the management of pALL with the understanding of underlying molecular and cellular mechanisms of action.", "substances": ["Phytochemicals"]}, {"pmid": "35120829", "year": "2022", "title": "The effect of granulocyte colony-stimulating factors on survival parameters in pediatric patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia: A retrospective study.", "summary": "Our findings indicate that G-CSF use during ALL treatment had no effect on relapse rates or overall survival.", "substances": ["Granulocyte Colony-Stimulating Factor"]}, {"pmid": "34232789", "year": "2022", "title": "Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia in Adolescents and Young Adults: A Polish Perspective.", "summary": "Acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) is a disease that affects immature lymphocytes in the blood and presents a high prevalence rate in children and adolescent young adult (AYA) populations (15-39 years). AYAs are a unique group who face a significant therapeutic disadvantage when treated with the adult regimen, as evident with lower remission rates, whereas the opposite is true in children. A recent study by EUROCARE-5 showed a marked decrease with age in 5 years relative to survival outcomes based on cancer registries of 27 European countries: 85.8% for patients 0-14 years of age and a decreased 62.2% and 52.8% for patients 15-19 and 20-39 years, respectively. There is growing evidence demonstrating that the pediatric ALL treatment regimen is effective and beneficial when treating AYAs. Treatment of ALL in AYAs around the world is showing improved remission rates with therapeutic advancements and increasing amount of data available with updated clinical trials and regimens. The addition of l-asparaginase into adult treatment regimens has significantly increased the remission rates. This administration to AYAs is more difficult but shows a positive benefit in comparison with the toxicity ratio. This review article will discuss the controversy of AYA patients diagnosed with ALL treated with pediatric or adult protocols and their perspectives in Poland and will focus on ALL etiology, epidemiology, and prognostic factors with comparison of compliance of medications between both populations of patients.", "substances": ["Asparaginase"]}, {"pmid": "35473534", "year": "2022", "title": "An Overview of Conventional Drugs and Nanotherapeutic Options for the Treatment and Management of Pediatric Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia.", "summary": "Acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) is a common form of pediatric cancer affecting the lymphoblast, a type of white blood cell found in the bone marrow. In this disease, the normal lymphoblast cells transform into leukemic cells and subsequently enter the bloodstream. Leukemic cells found in patients with ALL have shown differences in cholesterol uptake and utilization. Current treatment consists of chemotherapy, chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) therapy, and hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT). In addition, minimal residual disease (MRD) has become an effective tool for measuring treatment efficacy and the potential for relapse. Chemotherapy resistance remains a significant barrier in the treatment of ALL. Biomarkers such as an upregulated Akt signaling pathway and an overexpressed VLA-4 integrin-protein have been associated with drug resistance. Nanoparticles have been used to favorably alter the pharmacokinetic profile of conventional drug agents. These drug-delivery systems are designed to selectively deliver their drug payloads to desired targets. Therefore, nanoparticles offer advantages such as improved efficacy and reduced toxicity. This review highlights conventional treatment options, distinctive characteristics of pediatric ALL, therapeutic challenges encountered during therapy, and the key role that nanotherapeutics play in the treatment of ALL.", "substances": ["Integrin alpha4beta1", "Receptors, Chimeric Antigen", "Cholesterol", "Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-akt"]}, {"pmid": "34986625", "year": "2022", "title": "[Clinical analysis of 3 cases of mucormycosis in children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia and literature review].", "summary": "<b>Objective:</b> To investigate the clinical features, diagnosis,treatment and prognosis of children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia complicated with mucormycosis, and to improve the understanding of the disease. <b>Methods:</b> The clinical data of 3 children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) complicated with mucormycosis treated at the First Affiliated Hospital of Zhengzhou University between October 2020 and January 2021 were analyzed retrospectively. Literature search and review covered the China national knowledge infrastructure, Wanfang database and Pubmed using the keywords of \"acute lymphoblastic leukemia\" and \"mucormycosis\" up to June 2021. <b>Results:</b> Case 1, a 12-year-old boy, was diagnosed with ALL, developed fever and chest pain during induction therapy. The Metagenomic next-generation sequencing (mNGS) testing of alveolar perfusion fluid suggested infection with Rhizopus oryzae. Amphotericin B combined with posaconazole was applied and amphotericin B was removed after improvement. Bone destruction was indicated by CT. Amphotericin B was applied again. Case 2, a 4-year-old boy, with a history of pallor and tetter, was diagnosed with ALL. He developed cough and fever during induction therapy. mNGS of blood suggested infection with Rhizomucor pusillus. Amphotericin B combined with voriconazole was applied, but the situation was not significantly improved. The disseminated infection occurred. Amphotericin B combined with posaconazole was applied and vacuum sealing drainage was performed. Case 3, a 2-year-old girl, was diagnosed with ALL, developed fever and cough during induction therapy. Rhizomucor pusillus was indicated by mNGS. Amphotericin B combined with posaconazole was used, and posaconazole was stopped after improvement. Follow-up until June 2021, the condition of the 3 children improved. There was no recurrent Mucor infection, and the primary hematopathy was in complete remission. According to the literature, 7 reports were found in Chinese journals, while 17 reports were found in English literature, 25 cases have been reported. Among a total of 28 children, 11 cases rhino-orbito-cerebral mucormycosis, four pulmonary mucormycosis, 2 cutaneous mucormycosis, 2 gastrointestinal mucormycosis and 9 disseminated mucormycosis. There were 17 cases developed infection during induction chemotherapy, 8 cases during maintenance therapy, 3 cases after hematopoietic stem cell transplantation. Voriconazole was used in 15 cases; 19 cases were treated with combined surgery, 7 cases were treated with drugs only, 2 cases were untreated; 21 cases showed improvement after treatment. Death occurred in seven cases. <b>Conclusions:</b> ALL complicated with mucormycosis often occurs in the stage of induction therapy. The clinical features lacked specificity, mNGS can help find the pathogen and provide evidence for diagnosis. Surgical treatment also could be combined when necessary, which is helpful to improve the prognosis.", "substances": ["Antifungal Agents", "Amphotericin B"]}, {"pmid": "36346055", "year": "2022", "title": "Interstitial pneumonitis associated with dasatinib treatment for chronic myeloid leukemia or acute lymphoblastic leukemia: case series and a literature review.", "summary": "Dasatinib, a tyrosine kinase inhibitor, is usually prescribed for chronic myeloid leukemia and Philadelphia chromosome-positive acute lymphoblastic leukemia. However, some patients may develop an intolerance to this drug over the years. Among various toxicities related to dasatinib, dasatinib-associated interstitial pneumonitis is not reported frequently in the literature yet. Moreover, published studies have reported only few cases of dasatinib-associated pneumonitis, almost exclusively in chronic myeloid leukemia. In this study, we describe three cases of dasatinib-associated interstitial pneumonitis in patients with chronic myeloid leukemia or Philadelphia chromosome-positive acute lymphoblastic leukemia (a 56-year-old man, a 34-year-old man, and a 46-year-old woman) at our institution. In all three patients, the time from the initiation of dasatinib therapy to the onset of interstitial pneumonitis varied greatly. Among them, one patient underwent a surgical lung biopsy, which revealed chronic granulomatous inflammation without any causative pathogen. In all patients, dasatinib was discontinued after the diagnosis of interstitial pneumonitis, and two patients were treated with systemic steroids. Although infrequent, dasatinib-induced pneumonitis should be considered a possible diagnosis in dasatinib-treated patients with fever and respiratory symptoms. In addition, hematologists and pulmonologists should be aware of this rare but critical toxicity.", "substances": ["Dasatinib", "Pyrimidines", "Thiazoles", "Protein Kinase Inhibitors"]}, {"pmid": "35662114", "year": "2022", "title": "Monoclonal antibodies for the treatment of acute lymphocytic leukemia: A literature review.", "summary": "Appling personalized approach for achieving higher efficacy is one of the most important aspects of treatment. Moreover, we recommend that the wide use of these Mabs depends on designing further cost-effectiveness trials in this field.", "substances": ["Antibodies, Monoclonal", "Antineoplastic Agents", "Antineoplastic Agents, Immunological", "Rituximab"]}, {"pmid": "35390793", "year": "2022", "title": "Antibody and Cellular-Based Therapies for Pediatric Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia: Mechanisms and Prospects.", "summary": "The significant prospects and challenges are discussed, highlighting the innovative immunotherapies to deal with ALL. Together, this review will summarize the progress of antibody and cellular-based therapies for pediatric ALL, which may promote further research on antibody-based biopharmaceutics.", "substances": ["Antibodies, Bispecific"]}, {"pmid": "27030386", "year": "2016", "title": "Physical exercise training interventions for children and young adults during and after treatment for childhood cancer.", "summary": "The effects of physical exercise training interventions for childhood cancer participants are not yet convincing. Possible reasons are the small numbers of participants and insufficient study designs, but it can also be that this type of intervention is not as effective as in adult cancer patients. However, the first results show some positive effects on physical fitness in the intervention group compared to the control group. There were positive intervention effects for body composition, flexibility, cardiorespiratory fitness, muscle strength, and health-related quality of life (cancer-related items). These were measured by some assessment methods, but not all. However, the quality of the evidence was low and these positive effects were not found for the other assessed outcomes, such as fatigue, level of daily activity, and adverse events. There is a need for more studies with comparable aims and interventions, using a higher number of participants that also include diagnoses other than ALL.", "substances": ["Antineoplastic Agents"]}, {"pmid": "34865703", "year": "2022", "title": "Has Ph-like ALL Superseded Ph+ ALL as the Least Favorable Subtype?", "summary": "Philadelphia chromosome-like acute lymphoblastic leukemia (Ph-like ALL) is a subset of high-risk B-ALL associated with high relapse risk and inferior clinical outcomes across the pediatric-to-adult age spectrum. Ph-like ALL is characterized by frequent IKZF1 alterations and a kinase-activated gene expression profile similar to that of Philadelphia chromosome-positive (Ph+) ALL, yet lacks the canonical BCR-ABL1 rearrangement. Advances in high-throughput sequencing technologies during the past decade have unraveled the genomic landscape of Ph-like ALL, revealing a diverse array of kinase-activating translocations and mutations that may be amenable to targeted therapies that have set a remarkable precision medicine paradigm for patients with Ph\u00a0+\u00a0ALL. Collaborative scientific efforts to identify and characterise Ph-like ALL during the past decade has directly informed current precision medicine trials investigating the therapeutic potential of tyrosine kinase inhibitor-based therapies for children, adolescents, and adults with Ph-like ALL, although the most optimal treatment paradigm for this high-risk group of patients has yet to be established. Herein, we describe the epidemiology, clinical features, and biology of Ph-like ALL, highlight challenges in implementing pragmatic and cost-effective diagnostic algorithms in the clinic, and describe the milieu of treatment strategies under active investigation that strive to decrease relapse risk and improve long-term survival for patients with Ph-like ALL as has been successfully achieved for those with Ph\u00a0+\u00a0ALL.", "substances": ["Fusion Proteins, bcr-abl"]}, {"pmid": "34655742", "year": "2021", "title": "Bone health in glucocorticoid-treated childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia.", "summary": "Glucocorticoids (GCs) are widely used in the treatment of childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), but their long-term use is also associated with bone-related morbidities. Among others, growth deficit, decreased bone mineral density (BMD) and increased fracture rate are well-documented and severely impact quality of life. Unfortunately, no efficient treatment for the management of bone health impairment in patients and survivors is currently available. The overall goal of this review is to discuss the existing data on how GCs impair bone health in pediatric ALL and attempts made to minimize these side effects.", "substances": ["Glucocorticoids"]}, {"pmid": "34402732", "year": "2022", "title": "Antibody and cellular immunotherapies for acute lymphoblastic leukemia in adults.", "summary": "Despite improvements in the outcomes of patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), traditional therapies (including hematopoietic stem cell transplant) often still fail. Antigen-specific immunotherapies for the treatment of ALL such as monoclonal antibodies, antibody-drug conjugates, bispecific T-cell engagers (BiTEs), and chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cells have demonstrated remarkable clinical efficacy and are rapidly evolving. With indisputable activity in patients with relapsed or refractory ALL, efforts now hope to integrate these agents into earlier phases of treatment. In this review, we will discuss the available antibody and cellular-based immunotherapies for the treatment of patients with ALL and provide a clinical and biologic framework with which to inform treatment approaches.", "substances": ["Antibodies, Bispecific", "Antibodies, Monoclonal", "Antineoplastic Agents, Immunological"]}, {"pmid": "34511319", "year": "2022", "title": "SOHO State of the Art Updates and Next Questions: Management of Asparaginase Toxicity in Adolescents and Young Adults with Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia.", "summary": "A wider use of L-asparaginase in the treatment of children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia has improved cure rates during recent decades and hence led to introduction of pediatric-inspired treatment protocols for adolescents and young adults. In parallel, a range of burdensome, often severe and occasionally life-threatening toxicities have become frequent, including hypersensitivity, hepatotoxicity, hypertriglyceridemia, thromboembolism, pancreatitis, and osteonecrosis. This often leads to truncation of asparaginase therapy, which at least in the pediatric population has been clearly associated with a higher risk of leukemic relapse. Many of the asparaginase induced toxicities are far more common in older patients, but since their relapse rate is still unsatisfactory, the decision to discontinue asparaginase therapy should balance the risk of toxicity with continued asparaginase therapy against the risk of relapse in the individual patient. The underlying mechanisms of most of the asparaginase induced side effects are still unclear. In this review we address the individual toxicities, known risk factors, and their clinical management.", "substances": ["Asparaginase"]}, {"pmid": "34172894", "year": "2021", "title": "Optimizing the treatment of acute lymphoblastic leukemia in younger and older adults: new drugs and evolving paradigms.", "summary": "In the past decade, the available treatments for patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) have rapidly expanded, in parallel with an increased understanding of the genomic features that impact the disease biology and clinical outcomes. With the development of the anti-CD22 antibody-drug conjugate inotuzumab ozogamicin, the CD3-CD19 bispecific T-cell engager antibody blinatumomab, CD19 chimeric antigen receptor T-cell therapy, and the potent BCR-ABL1 tyrosine kinase inhibitor ponatinib, the outlook of ALL in both younger and older adults has substantially improved. The availability of highly effective drugs raised important questions concerning the optimal combination and sequence of these agents, their incorporation into frontline regimens, and the role of hematopoietic stem cell transplantation. In this review, we discuss the rapidly evolving paradigms in the treatment of ALL, highlighting both established and effective regimens, as well as promising new therapies that are being evaluated in ongoing clinical trials. We specifically focus on novel combination regimens in both the frontline and salvage settings that are leading to new standards of care in the treatment of ALL.", "substances": ["Antineoplastic Agents, Immunological", "Inotuzumab Ozogamicin"]}, {"pmid": "34105243", "year": "2022", "title": "Can recombinant technology address asparaginase Erwinia chrysanthemi shortages?", "summary": "Acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) is the most common childhood cancer. Bacterial L-asparaginase has played an important role in ALL treatment for several decades; however, hypersensitivity reactions to Escherichia coli-derived asparaginases often preclude their use. Inability to receive asparaginase due to hypersensitivities is associated with poor patient outcomes. Erwinia chrysanthemi-derived asparaginase (ERW) is an effective, non-cross-reactive treatment option, but is limited in supply. Consequently, alternative asparaginase preparations are needed to ensure asparaginase availability for patients with hypersensitivities. Recombinant technology can potentially address this unmet need by programming cells to produce recombinant asparaginase. JZP-458, a recombinant Erwinia asparaginase derived from a novel Pseudomonas fluorescens expression platform with no immunologic cross-reactivity to E. coli-derived asparaginases, has the same primary amino acid sequence as ERW, with comparable activity based on in vitro measurements. The efficient manufacturing of JZP-458 would provide an additional asparaginase preparation for patients with hypersensitivities.", "substances": ["Antineoplastic Agents", "Asparaginase"]}, {"pmid": "34452592", "year": "2021", "title": "Understanding thiopurine methyltransferase polymorphisms for the targeted treatment of hematologic malignancies.", "summary": "To titrate thiopurines safely and effectively, achieve the right degree of lymphotoxic effect and avoid excessive myelosuppression, the optimal management will combine a preemptive <i>TPMT</i> genotyping to establish a safe initial dose with a close phenotypic monitoring of TPMT activity and/or of active metabolites during long-term treatment. Compared to current ALL protocols, replacement of TG by MP during reinduction phase in <i>TPMT</i> heterozygotes and novel individualized TG regimens in maintenance for <i>TPMT wild-type</i> subjects could be investigated to improve outcomes while avoiding risk of severe hepatotoxicity.", "substances": ["Antimetabolites, Antineoplastic", "Mercaptopurine", "Methyltransferases", "thiopurine methyltransferase", "Thioguanine"]}, {"pmid": "34351604", "year": "2021", "title": "Asparaginase-Associated Pancreatitis in Pediatric Patients with Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia: Current Perspectives.", "summary": "Asparaginase therapy is a vital agent in the treatment of acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), with increasing evidence of its high importance in high-risk ALL populations. However, despite the clear clinical and biological benefits of asparaginase therapy, many patients experience toxicities. A well-known treatment-limiting toxicity is asparaginase-associated pancreatitis (AAP). If severe, it necessitates discontinuation of asparaginase therapy, which can lead to a higher risk of relapse in patients with ALL. New protocols for ALL therapy have increased overall total doses of asparaginase therapy in select high-risk populations and have incorporated longer half-life formulations of pegylated asparaginase. Treatment drug monitoring has also allowed assurance of adequate levels of asparagine depletion throughout treatment. It is currently unknown if these changes will increase rates of AAP. Interestingly, important pharmacogenomics data, such as single nucleotide polymorphisms, can identify patients at the highest risk for severe AAP. The incidence of AAP in recent trials, current pharmacogenomic data that could further our understanding of the disease, and the importance of cautiously re-exposing patients to further asparaginase treatment after an initial episode of AAP are discussed.", "substances": ["Antineoplastic Agents", "Asparaginase"]}, {"pmid": "34292515", "year": "2021", "title": "Secondary Dysgammaglobulinemia in Children with Hematological Malignancies Treated with Targeted Therapies.", "summary": "Targeted therapies have emerged as innovative treatments for patients whose disease does not respond to conventional chemotherapy, and their use has widely expanded in the field of pediatric hematologic malignancies in the last decade. While they carry the promise of improved disease control and survival and are currently investigated in first-line treatment protocols for patients with poor prognostic markers, they are associated with a considerable incidence of specific toxicities, including cytokine-release syndrome, neurotoxicity, hepatotoxicity, nephrotoxicity, cardiotoxicity, endocrine adverse events, and infectious complications. Iatrogenic or secondary dysgammaglobulinemia is a main consequence of targeted therapies using monoclonal antibodies and other antibody-derived treatments that target specific antigens on lymphoid cells (blinatumomab, inotuzumab ozogamicin, rituximab), chimeric antigen receptor T cells, tyrosine kinase inhibitors (imatinib, dasatinib, nilotinib) and, to a lesser extent, checkpoint inhibitors (pembrolizumab, nivolumab). This review discusses the diagnosis and incidence of secondary or iatrogenic dysgammaglobulinemia in children treated with targeted therapies for leukemias and lymphomas, and options for monitoring and treatment.", "substances": ["Antibodies, Monoclonal", "Antineoplastic Agents", "Antineoplastic Agents, Immunological"]}, {"pmid": "34031876", "year": "2022", "title": "Testicular involvement of acute lymphoblastic leukemia in children and adolescents: Diagnosis, biology, and management.", "summary": "Acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) in children and adolescents can involve the testes at diagnosis or upon relapse. The testes were long considered pharmacologic sanctuary sites, presumably because of the blood-testis barrier, which prevents the entry of large-molecular-weight compounds into the seminiferous tubule. Patients with testicular involvement were historically treated with testicular irradiation or orchiectomy. With the advent of contemporary intensive chemotherapy, including high-dose methotrexate, vincristine/glucocorticoid pulses, and cyclophosphamide, testicular leukemia present at diagnosis can be eradicated, with the risk of testicular relapse being 2% or lower. However, the management of testicular leukemia is not well described in the recent literature and remains relevant in low- and middle-income countries where testicular relapse is still experienced. Chemotherapy can effectively treat late, isolated testicular B-cell ALL relapses without the need for irradiation or orchiectomy in patients with an early response and thereby preserve testicular function. For refractory or early-relapse testicular leukemia, newer treatment approaches such as chimeric antigen receptor-modified T (CAR-T) cell therapy are under investigation. The control of testicular relapse with CAR-T cells and their penetration of the blood-testis barrier have been reported. The outcome of pediatric ALL has been improved remarkably by controlling the disease in the bone marrow, central nervous system, and testes, and such success should be extended globally. LAY SUMMARY: Acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) in children and adolescents can involve the testes at diagnosis or upon relapse. Modern intensive chemotherapy has largely eradicated testicular relapse in high-income countries. Consequently, most current clinicians are not familiar with how to manage it if it does occur, and testicular relapse continues to be a significant problem in low- and middle-income countries that have not had access to modern intensive chemotherapy. The authors review the historical progress made in eradicating testicular ALL and use the lessons learned to make recommendations for treatment.", "substances": ["Vincristine", "Cyclophosphamide"]}, {"pmid": "34573335", "year": "2022", "title": "Targeting the CDK6 Dependence of Ph+ Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia.", "summary": "Ph+ ALL is a poor-prognosis leukemia subtype driven by the <i>BCR-ABL1</i> oncogene, either the p190- or the p210-BCR/ABL isoform in a 70:30 ratio. Tyrosine Kinase inhibitors (TKIs) are the drugs of choice in the therapy of Ph+ ALL. In combination with standard chemotherapy, TKIs have markedly improved the outcome of Ph+ ALL, in particular if this treatment is followed by bone marrow transplantation. However, resistance to TKIs develops with high frequency, causing leukemia relapse that results in <5-year overall survival. Thus, new therapies are needed to address relapsed/TKI-resistant Ph+ ALL. We have shown that expression of cell cycle regulatory kinase CDK6, but not of the highly related CDK4 kinase, is required for the proliferation and survival of Ph+ ALL cells. Comparison of leukemia suppression induced by treatment with the clinically-approved dual CDK4/6 inhibitor palbociclib versus CDK6 silencing revealed that the latter treatment was markedly more effective, probably reflecting inhibition of CDK6 kinase-independent effects. Thus, we developed CDK4/6-targeted proteolysis-targeting chimeras (PROTACs) that preferentially degrade CDK6 over CDK4. One compound termed PROTAC YX-2-107, which degrades CDK6 by recruiting the Cereblon ubiquitin ligase, markedly suppressed leukemia burden in mice injected with de novo or TKI-resistant Ph+ ALL. The effect of PROTAC YX-2-107 was comparable or superior to that of palbociclib. The development of CDK6-selective PROTACs represents an effective strategy to exploit the \"CDK6 dependence\" of Ph+ ALL cells while sparing a high proportion of normal hematopoietic progenitors that depend on both CDK6 and CDK6 for their survival. In combination with other agents, CDK6-selective PROTACs may be valuable components of chemotherapy-free protocols for the therapy of Ph+ ALL and other CDK6-dependent hematological malignancies.", "substances": ["Antineoplastic Agents", "MYB protein, human", "Protein Kinase Inhibitors", "Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-myb", "Fusion Proteins, bcr-abl", "CDK6 protein, human", "Cyclin-Dependent Kinase 6"]}, {"pmid": "34292410", "year": "2021", "title": "Amino acid metabolism as a therapeutic target in cancer: a review.", "summary": "Malignant cells often demonstrate a proliferative advantage when compared to non-malignant cells. However, the rapid growth and metabolism required for survival can also highlight vulnerabilities specific to these malignant cells. One such vulnerability exhibited by cancer is an increased demand for amino acids (AAs), which often results in a dependency on exogenous sources of AAs or requires upregulation of de novo synthesis. These metabolic alterations can be exploited by therapy, which aims to improve treatment outcome and decrease relapse and reoccurrence. One clinically utilised strategy targeting AA dependency is the use of asparaginase in the treatment of acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL), which results in a depletion of exogenous asparagine and subsequent cancer cell death. Examples of other successful strategies include the exploitation of arginine deiminase and methioninase, nutrient restriction of methionine and the inhibition of glutaminase. In this review, we summarise these treatment strategies into three promising avenues: AA restriction, enzymatic depletion and inhibition of metabolism. This review provides an insight into the complexity of metabolism in cancer, whilst highlighting these three current research avenues that have support in both preclinical and clinical settings.", "substances": ["Amino Acids", "Dietary Proteins", "Asparaginase"]}, {"pmid": "33122582", "year": "2021", "title": "Rasburicase-induced Methemoglobinemia: A Case Report and Literature Review.", "summary": "Rasburicase is a recombinant urate oxidase enzyme indicated for tumor lysis syndrome, a potential life-threatening oncologic emergency that occurs most commonly during initial chemotherapy for hematological malignancies. As a result of the defects in the physiological antioxidant pathway, erythrocytes of patients with glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency are not protected against the oxidizing stress exerted by hydrogen peroxide generated with the administration of rasburicase. The authors report a 14-year-old patient, diagnosed with T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia, who developed methemoglobinemia and hemolytic anemia with low oxygen saturation after starting steroids, hyperhydratation, and rasburicase administration. The complications resolved with supportive therapy only.", "substances": ["Recombinant Proteins", "rasburicase", "Urate Oxidase"]}, {"pmid": "34445444", "year": "2021", "title": "Insights on Metabolic Reprogramming and Its Therapeutic Potential in Acute Leukemia.", "summary": "Acute leukemias, classified as acute myeloid leukemia and acute lymphoblastic leukemia, represent the most prevalent hematologic tumors in adolescent and young adults. In recent years, new challenges have emerged in order to improve the clinical effectiveness of therapies already in use and reduce their side effects. In particular, in this scenario, metabolic reprogramming plays a key role in tumorigenesis and prognosis, and it contributes to the treatment outcome of acute leukemia. This review summarizes the latest findings regarding the most relevant metabolic pathways contributing to the continuous growth, redox homeostasis, and drug resistance of leukemia cells. We describe the main metabolic deregulations in acute leukemia and evidence vulnerabilities that could be exploited for targeted therapy.", "substances": ["Antineoplastic Agents"]}, {"pmid": "34171282", "year": "2021", "title": "Severe toxicity free survival: physician-derived definitions of unacceptable long-term toxicities following acute lymphocytic leukaemia.", "summary": "5-year overall survival rates have surpassed 90% for childhood acute lymphocytic leukaemia, but survivors are at risk for permanent health sequelae. Although event-free survival appropriately represents the outcome for cancers with poor overall survival, this metric is inadequate when cure rates are high but challenged by serious, persistent complications. Accordingly, a group of experts in paediatric haematology-oncology, representative of 17 international acute lymphocytic leukaemia study groups, launched an initiative to construct a measure, designated severe toxicity-free survival (STFS), to quantify the occurrence of physician-prioritised toxicities to be integrated with standard cancer outcome reporting. Five generic inclusion criteria (not present before cancer diagnosis, symptomatic, objectifiable, of unacceptable severity, permanent, or requiring unacceptable treatments) were used to assess 855 health conditions, which resulted in inclusion of 21 severe toxicities. Consensus definitions were reached through a modified Delphi process supplemented by two additional plenary meetings. The 21 severe toxicities include severe adverse health conditions that substantially affect activities of daily living and are refractory to therapy (eg, refractory seizures), are without therapeutic options (eg, blindness), or require substantially invasive treatment (eg, cardiac transplantation). Incorporation of STFS assessment into clinical trials has the potential to improve and diversify treatment strategies, focusing not only on traditional outcome events and overall survival but also the frequencies of the most severe toxicities. The two major aims of this Review were to: prioritise and define unacceptable long-term toxicity for patients with childhood acute lymphocytic leukaemia, and define how these toxicities should be combined into a composite quantity to be integrated with other reported outcomes. Although STFS quantifies the clinically unacceptable health tradeoff for cure using childhood acute lymphocytic leukaemia as a model disease, the prioritised severe toxicities are based on generic considerations of relevance to any other cancer diagnosis and age group.", "substances": ["Antineoplastic Agents"]}, {"pmid": "34139603", "year": "2022", "title": "Intrathecal methotrexate induced myelopathy, rare yet serious complication: A case report and review of the literature.", "summary": "The regular administration of intrathecal chemotherapy has significantly reduced the risk of central nervous system leukemia in patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia. We report the case of 28-year-old man who developed intrathecal methotrexate induced myelopathy; a rare but serious side effect of intrathecal chemotherapy. In the light of absent effective treatment strategies, description of the case, along with reviewing similar cases published in the literature will help shed a light on the possible pathophysiologic mechanisms behind this injury. To this date, there are no specific clinical, biochemical and imaging signs that would allow timely detection of intrathecal methotrexate induced myelopathy. This in turn is causing delayed treatment of this injury, resulting in significant morbidity and mortality.", "substances": ["Methotrexate"]}, {"pmid": "33866913", "year": "2021", "title": "Safety of nelarabine in adults with relapsed or refractory T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia/lymphoma.", "summary": "Nelarabine is approved for the treatment of adults with R/R T-ALL/T-LBL in the setting of third or more line of therapy. Hematological and neurological toxicities are the most frequent adverse events. Grade 3 and 4 neutropenia and thrombocytopenia are common, however with treatment-related deaths accounting only for 1-2% of patients. Neurological toxicity is typically characterized by a reversible peripheral neuropathy, usually mild or moderate and without treatment delay. Other neurological (somnolence and depressed level of consciousness) or extra-neurological adverse events are uncommon and rarely severe. In conclusion, nelarabine is a well tolerated and effective salvage therapy in patients with R/R T-ALL/T-LBL and has acquired an important role as a bridge-therapy to allogeneic stem cell transplantation.", "substances": ["Antineoplastic Agents", "Arabinonucleosides", "nelarabine"]}, {"pmid": "33932739", "year": "2021", "title": "Circumventing the side effects of L-asparaginase.", "summary": "L-asparaginase is an enzyme that catalyzes the degradation of asparagine and successfully used in the treatment of acute lymphoblastic leukemia. L-asparaginase toxicity is either related to hypersensitivity to the foreign protein or to a secondary L-glutaminase activity that causes inhibition of protein synthesis. PEGylated versions have been incorporated into the treatment protocols to reduce immunogenicity and an alternative L-asparaginase derived from Dickeya chrysanthemi is used in patients with anaphylactic reactions to the E. coli L-asparaginase. Alternative approaches commonly explore new sources of the enzyme as well as the use of protein engineering techniques to create less immunogenic, more stable variants with lower L-glutaminase activity. This article reviews the main strategies used to overcome L-asparaginase shortcomings and introduces recent tools that can be used to create therapeutic enzymes with improved features.", "substances": ["Antineoplastic Agents", "Asparaginase", "Glutaminase"]}, {"pmid": "25808413", "year": "2015", "title": "Growth patterns during and after treatment in patients with pediatric ALL: A meta-analysis.", "summary": "Patients with pediatric ALL experience unhealthy weight gain early in treatment, and increases in weight are maintained beyond treatment completion. Preventing early onset of obesity is a priority for improving the care and outcomes for patients with pediatric ALL.", "substances": ["Antineoplastic Agents"]}, {"pmid": "33781551", "year": "2021", "title": "COVID19 and acute lymphoblastic leukemias of children and adolescents: Updated recommendations (Version 2) of the Leukemia Committee of the French Society for the fight against Cancers and leukemias in children and adolescents (SFCE).", "summary": "Since the emergence of the SARS-CoV-2 infection, many recommendations have been made. However, the very specific nature of acute lymphoblastic leukemias and their treatment in children and adolescents led the Leukemia Committee of the French Society for the fight against Cancers and leukemias in children and adolescents (SFCE) to propose more specific recommendations. Here is the second version of these recommendations updated according to the evolution of knowledge on COVID19.", "substances": ["Adrenal Cortex Hormones", "Antiviral Agents", "COVID-19 Vaccines", "remdesivir", "Adenosine Monophosphate", "Alanine"]}, {"pmid": "33925883", "year": "2021", "title": "The New Therapeutic Strategies in Pediatric T-Cell Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia.", "summary": "Childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia is a genetically heterogeneous cancer that accounts for 10-15% of T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL) cases. The T-ALL event-free survival rate (EFS) is 85%. The evaluation of structural and numerical chromosomal changes is important for a comprehensive biological characterization of T-ALL, but there are currently no genetic prognostic markers. Despite chemotherapy regimens, steroids, and allogeneic transplantation, relapse is the main problem in children with T-ALL. Due to the development of high-throughput molecular methods, the ability to define subgroups of T-ALL has significantly improved in the last few years. The profiling of the gene expression of T-ALL has led to the identification of T-ALL subgroups, and it is important in determining prognostic factors and choosing an appropriate treatment. Novel therapies targeting molecular aberrations offer promise in achieving better first remission with the hope of preventing relapse. The employment of precisely targeted therapeutic approaches is expected to improve the cure of the disease and quality of life of patients. These include therapies that inhibit Notch1 activation (bortezomib), JAK inhibitors in ETP-ALL (ruxolitinib), BCL inhibitors (venetoclax), and anti-CD38 therapy (daratumumab). Chimeric antigen receptor T-cell therapy (CAR-T) is under investigation, but it requires further development and trials. Nelarabine-based regimens remain the standard for treating the relapse of T-ALL.", "substances": ["Antibodies, Monoclonal", "Antineoplastic Agents", "Bridged Bicyclo Compounds, Heterocyclic", "Nitriles", "Pyrazoles", "Pyrimidines", "Sulfonamides", "daratumumab", "Bortezomib", "ruxolitinib", "venetoclax"]}, {"pmid": "33734596", "year": "2021", "title": "Blinatumomab as first salvage versus second or later salvage in adults with relapsed/refractory B-cell precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia: Results of a pooled analysis.", "summary": "Blinatumomab is a BiTE<sup>\u00ae</sup> immuno-oncology therapy indicated for the treatment of patients with relapsed or refractory (r/r) B-cell precursor (BCP) acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). Aims To assess the efficacy and safety of blinatumomab as first salvage versus second or later salvage in patients with r/r BCP ALL. Materials & Methods Patient-level pooled data were used for this analysis. In total, 532 adults with r/r BCP ALL treated with blinatumomab were included (first salvage, n = 165; second or later salvage, n = 367). Results Compared with patients who received blinatumomab as second or later salvage, those who received blinatumomab as first salvage had a longer median overall survival (OS; 10.4 vs. 5.7 months; HR, 1.58; 95% CI, 1.26-1.97; P < .001) and relapse-free survival (10.1 vs. 7.3 months; HR, 1.38; 95% CI, 0.98-1.93; P = .061), and higher rates of remission (n = 89 [54%] vs. n = 150 [41%]; odds ratio, 0.59; 95% CI, 0.41-0.85; P = .005), minimal residual disease response (n = 68 [41%] vs. n = 118 [32%]), and allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplant (alloHSCT) realization (n = 60 [36%] vs. n = 88 [24%]), and alloHSCT in continuous remission (n = 33 [20%] vs. n = 52 (14%]). In a subgroup analysis, there was no apparent effect of prior alloHSCT on median OS in either salvage group. The safety profile of blinatumomab was generally similar between the groups; however, cytokine release syndrome, febrile neutropenia, and infection were more frequent with second or later salvage than with first salvage. Discussion In this pooled analysis, the logistic regression analyses indicated greater benefit with blinatumomab as first salvage than as second or later salvage, as evident by the longer median OS, longer median RFS, and higher rates of remission. Conclusion Overall, blinatumomab was beneficial as first salvage and as second or later salvage, but the effects were favorable as first salvage.", "substances": ["Antibodies, Bispecific", "Antineoplastic Agents", "blinatumomab"]}, {"pmid": "33649831", "year": "2021", "title": "Human L\u2011asparaginase: Acquiring knowledge of its activation (Review).", "summary": "L\u2011asparaginase enzymes have been a vital component of acute lymphoblastic leukemia therapy for >40\u00a0years. L\u2011asparaginase acts by depleting plasma L\u2011asparagine, which is essential to the survival of leukemia cells. In contrast to normal cells, tumor cells cannot synthesize L\u2011asparagine and thus depend on its external uptake for growth. Currently, three bacterial L\u2011asparaginases are used in therapy; however, they are associated with severe side\u2011effects related to high toxicity and immunogenicity. The introduction of human L\u2011asparaginase\u2011like protein 1 in acute lymphoblastic leukemia treatment would avoid the problems caused by the bacterial enzymes; however, a major difficulty in the therapeutic use of the human enzyme comes from the fact that human L\u2011asparaginase must be activated through an autoprocessing step, which is a low\u2011efficiency process in\u00a0vitro that results in reduced enzymatic activity. The present review article aimed to contribute to the understanding of the enzyme self\u2011activation process and focuses on the efforts made for the development of a therapeutic variant of human L\u2011asparaginase.", "substances": ["Autoantigens", "ASRGL1 protein, human", "Asparaginase"]}, {"pmid": "33762096", "year": "2022", "title": "Managing older adults with Ph-negative ALL: What is new? Recent advances in treating older adults with ALL.", "summary": "Acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) among older adults continues to be associated with a dismal prognosis. Novel effective immunotherapies and targeted agents are expected to address unmet needs in adult ALL. This review has summarized recent evidence to determine whether these approaches can lead to the decreased use of chemotherapy among older adults with ALL and result in improved outcomes.", "substances": ["Antibodies, Bispecific", "Antineoplastic Agents"]}, {"pmid": "33743810", "year": "2021", "title": "Targeting chemokines for acute lymphoblastic leukemia therapy.", "summary": "Acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) is a hematological malignancy characterized by the malignant clonal expansion of lymphoid hematopoietic precursors. It is regulated by various signaling molecules such as cytokines and adhesion molecules in its microenvironment. Chemokines are chemotactic cytokines that regulate migration, positioning and interactions of cells. Many chemokine axes such as CXCL12/CXCR4 and CCL25/CCR9 have been proved to play important roles in leukemia microenvironment and further affect ALL outcomes. In this review, we summarize the chemokines that are involved in ALL progression and elaborate on their roles and mechanisms in leukemia cell proliferation, infiltration, drug resistance and disease relapse. We also discuss the potential of targeting chemokine axes for ALL treatments, since many related inhibitors have shown promising efficacy in preclinical trials, and some of them have entered clinical trials.", "substances": ["Antineoplastic Agents", "CXCL12 protein, human", "CXCR4 protein, human", "Chemokine CXCL12", "Chemokines", "Receptors, CXCR4"]}, {"pmid": "34497196", "year": "2021", "title": "[B cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia therapy: an up to date overview].", "summary": "It is over two decades since the first retrospective analysis indicated the superiority of pediatric-like therapy for adolescent and young adult (AYA) patients in 2000. To date, many prospective studies confirmed the efficacy and safety of pediatric-like therapy for AYA and older adult ALL, while therapy for pediatric ALL also made progress by innovating a new technology such as stratification of therapy by minimal residual disease (MRD). Furthermore, it is expected that further improvements will be achieved by applying newly approved anti-cancer drugs such as inotuzumab ozogamicin and blinatumomab. In this review, I will introduce these front line studies and discuss about the perspective of adult B-ALL treatment.", "substances": ["Inotuzumab Ozogamicin"]}, {"pmid": "32800789", "year": "2021", "title": "Molecular mechanisms and therapeutic implications of tetrandrine and cepharanthine in T cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia and autoimmune diseases.", "summary": "Inappropriately activated T cells mediate autoimmune diseases and T cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL). Glucocorticoid and chemotherapeutic agents have largely extended lives of these patients. However, serious side effects and drug resistance often limit the prognosis of considerable number of the patients. The efficient treatment of autoimmune diseases or T-ALL with drug resistance remains an important unmet demand clinically. Bisbenzylisoquinoline alkaloids tetrandrine and cepharanthine have been applied for the treatment of certain types of autoimmune diseases and cancers, while studies on their action mechanisms and their further applications combined with glucocorticoids or chemotherapeutic agents remains to be expanded. This review introduced molecular mechanisms of tetrandrine and cepharanthine in T cells, including their therapeutic implications. Both tetrandrine and cepharnthine influence the growth of activated T cells via several kinds of signaling pathways, such as NF-\u03baB, caspase cascades, cell cycle, MAPK, and PI3K/Akt/mTOR. According to recent preclinical and clinical studies, P-glycoprotein inhibitory effect of tetrandrine and cepharnthine could play a significant role on T cell-involved refractory diseases. Therefore, tetrandrine or cepharanthine combined with glucocorticoid or other anti-leukemia drugs would bring a new hope for patients with glucocorticoid-resistant autoimmune disease or refractory T-ALL accompanied with functional P-glycoprotein. In conclusion, bisbenzylisoquinoline alkaloids tetrandrine and cepharanthine can regulate several signaling pathways in abnormally activated T cells with low toxicity. Bisbenzylisoquinoline alkaloids deserve to be paid more attention as a lead compound to develop new drugs for the treatment of T cell-involved diseases in the future.", "substances": ["Antineoplastic Agents", "Benzylisoquinolines", "Glucocorticoids", "NF-kappa B", "tetrandrine", "cepharanthine", "TOR Serine-Threonine Kinases", "Mitogen-Activated Protein Kinases"]}], "Urinary Bladder Neoplasms": [{"pmid": "35176685", "year": "2022", "title": "Immunotherapy versus chemotherapy as first-line treatment for advanced urothelial cancer: A systematic review and meta-analysis.", "summary": "We found no OS benefit for patients treated with first-line immune checkpoint inhibition compared to chemotherapy among the overall population, cisplatin-ineligible patients, and PD-L1-high patients.", "substances": ["Cisplatin"]}, {"pmid": "35048736", "year": "2022", "title": "Impact of clinicopathological features on immune-based combinations for advanced urothelial carcinoma: a meta-analysis.", "summary": "<b>Aims:</b> Immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) have recently revolutionized the treatment landscape of metastatic urothelial carcinoma. The authors performed a meta-analysis aiming to evaluate the predictive value of Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group performance status, age, sex, liver metastasis and histology in trials comparing first-line ICI-based combinations with chemotherapy in metastatic urothelial carcinoma patients. <b>Methods:</b> Hazard ratios were analyzed. <b>Results:</b> ICI-based combinations significantly decreased the risk of death in several clinicopathological subgroups, including patients with no liver metastases (hazard ratio: 0.84; 95% CI: 0.74-0.95) and those with an Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group performance status of 0 (hazard ratio: 0.84; 95% CI: 0.72-0.97). <b>Conclusion:</b> The benefit of ICI-based combinations over chemotherapy in metastatic urothelial carcinoma was consistent across several clinicopathological subgroups, although a proportion of patients responded to chemotherapy alone.", "substances": ["Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors"]}, {"pmid": "34802798", "year": "2022", "title": "Adjuvant Chemotherapy for Muscle-invasive Bladder Cancer: A Systematic Review and Meta-analysis of Individual Participant Data from Randomised Controlled Trials.", "summary": "This systematic review and meta-analysis demonstrates that cisplatin-based adjuvant chemotherapy is a valid option for improving outcomes for muscle-invasive bladder cancer.", "substances": ["Cisplatin"]}, {"pmid": "34757531", "year": "2022", "title": "Pretreatment clinical and hematologic prognostic factors of metastatic urothelial carcinoma treated with pembrolizumab: a systematic review and meta-analysis.", "summary": "Pembrolizumab is the standard for the first and second lines in treating metastatic urothelial carcinoma (UC). This systematic review and meta-analysis aimed to assess the value of pretreatment clinical characteristics and hematologic biomarkers for prognosticating response to pembrolizumab in patients with metastatic UC. PUBMED<sup>\u00ae</sup>, Web of Science\u2122, and Scopus<sup>\u00ae</sup> databases were searched for articles published before May 2021 according to the PRISMA (Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Review and Meta-Analyses) statement. Studies were deemed eligible if they evaluated overall survival (OS) in patients with metastatic urothelial carcinoma treated with pembrolizumab and pretreatment clinical characteristics or laboratory examination. Overall, 13 studies comprising 1311 patients were eligible for the meta-analysis. Several pretreatment patients' demographics and hematologic biomarkers were significantly associated with worse OS as follows: Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group Performance Status (ECOG-PS)\u2009\u2265\u20092 (Pooled hazard ratio [HR]: 3.24, 95% confidence interval [CI] 2.57-4.09), presence of visceral metastasis (Pooled HR: 1.84, 95% CI 1.42-2.38), presence of liver metastasis (Pooled HR: 4.23, 95% CI 2.18-8.20), higher neutrophil-lymphocyte ratio (NLR) (Pooled HR: 1.29, 95% CI 1.07-1.55) and, higher c-reactive protein (CRP) (Pooled HR: 2.49, 95% CI 1.52-4.07). Metastatic UC patients with poor PS, liver metastasis, higher pretreatment NLR and/or CRP have a worse survival despite pembrolizumab treatment. These findings might help to guide the prognostic tools for clinical decision-making; however, they should be interpreted carefully, owing to limitations regarding the retrospective nature of primary data.", "substances": ["Antibodies, Monoclonal, Humanized", "pembrolizumab"]}, {"pmid": "32146152", "year": "2021", "title": "Programmed Death 1 and Programmed Death Ligand 1 Inhibitors in Advanced and Recurrent Urothelial Carcinoma: Meta-analysis of Single-Agent Studies.", "summary": "We performed a systematic review and meta-analysis on the response rates of patients with treatment-refractory urothelial carcinoma treated with programmed cell death 1 (PD-1) and programmed death ligand 1 (PD-L1) inhibitors. We reviewed the literature for prospective studies evaluating PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors in refractory urothelial carcinoma patients, which formed the basis for US Food and Drug Administration approval of 5 different antagonistic antibodies targeting PD-1 or PD-L1 (atezolizumab, durvalumab, avelumab, nivolumab, and pembrolizumab). We considered studies examining PD-1/PD-L1-treated patients, which we identified using the following key terms in the Pubmed, Scopus, Web of Science, ClinicalTrial.gov, and Cochrane Library databases. Eligible studies had\u00a0\u2265 20 patients each and reported response rates, duration of response, and overall survival (OS). We performed fixed and random-effects meta-analyses to model the point estimates for objective response rate and complete response. The median progression-free survival (PFS) and OS for studies reporting these statistics were evaluated. We found 10 eligible studies that met our inclusion criteria, providing extractable numerators and denominators for response rates, PFS, and OS for 1934 patients with metastatic urothelial carcinoma. The objective response rate was 18% (95% confidence interval, 15-22) for second-line or later therapies. The random-effects estimate for complete response was 4% (95% confidence interval, 3-5), including all disease locations and all PD-1 and PD-L1 inhibitors. Median OS and PFS were\u00a0<\u00a013 months and 3 months, respectively, across all studies, irrespective of PD-L1 expression. We found that the estimated response rates of agents included in this meta-analysis seem to be more favorable than other salvage therapies.", "substances": ["B7-H1 Antigen", "Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors", "Programmed Cell Death 1 Receptor"]}, {"pmid": "36037792", "year": "2022", "title": "Cabozantinib after prior checkpoint inhibitor therapy in patients with solid tumors: A systematic literature review.", "summary": "Cabozantinib appears to have anti-tumor activity after prior CPI therapy in patients with solid tumors. Our results are driven largely by studies in renal cell carcinoma. Evidence from ongoing phase 3 trials is required to establish further the role of cabozantinib after CPI therapy.", "substances": ["Anilides", "Cyclopropanes", "Indoles", "Pyridines", "cyclopropapyrroloindole", "cabozantinib"]}, {"pmid": "35718695", "year": "2022", "title": "Intermediate-risk Non-muscle-invasive Bladder Cancer: Updated Consensus Definition and Management Recommendations from the International Bladder Cancer Group.", "summary": "Standardizing the definition of IR NMIBC is critical for appropriate management of patients and for allowing a comparison of outcomes across clinical trials. The IBCG recommends defining IR NMIBC as\u00a0any TaLG tumor that is either recurrent\u00a0or multifocal or\u00a0 \u22653 cm, OR any T1LG tumor. If the 3 tier grading system is used, than any TaG2 tumor would also be considered IR disease regardless of whether new diagnosis or recurrent.\u00a0 Adjunctive management should then be based on established risk factors.", "substances": ["Adjuvants, Immunologic", "BCG Vaccine"]}, {"pmid": "36195918", "year": "2022", "title": "Emerging photodynamic/sonodynamic therapies for urological cancers: progress and challenges.", "summary": "Photodynamic therapy (PDT), and sonodynamic therapy (SDT) that developed from PDT, have been studied for decades to treat solid tumors. Compared with other deep tumors, the accessibility of urological tumors (e.g., bladder tumor and prostate tumor) makes them more suitable for PDT/SDT that requires exogenous stimulation. Due to the introduction of nanobiotechnology, emerging photo/sonosensitizers modified with different functional components and improved physicochemical properties have many outstanding advantages in cancer treatment compared with traditional photo/sonosensitizers, such as alleviating hypoxia to improve quantum yield, passive/active tumor targeting to increase drug accumulation, and combination with other therapeutic modalities (e.g., chemotherapy, immunotherapy and targeted therapy) to achieve synergistic therapy. As WST11 (TOOKAD\u00ae soluble) is currently clinically approved for the treatment of prostate cancer, emerging photo/sonosensitizers have great potential for clinical translation, which requires multidisciplinary participation and extensive clinical trials. Herein, the latest research advances of newly developed photo/sonosensitizers for the treatment of urological cancers, and the efficacy, as well as potential biological effects, are highlighted. In addition, the clinical status of PDT/SDT for urological cancers is presented, and the optimization of the photo/sonosensitizer development procedure for clinical translation is discussed.", "substances": ["Triazenes", "1-phenyl-3,3-dimethyltriazene"]}, {"pmid": "35988856", "year": "2022", "title": "Neoadjuvant therapy for muscle-invasive bladder cancer: Current clinical scenario, future perspectives, and unsolved questions.", "summary": "Cisplatin-based neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NAC) followed by radical cystectomy is the standard treatment for patients with muscle-invasive bladder cancer (MIBC). However, the implementation of NAC is lower than desirable mainly due to its limited impact on overall survival, patients' comorbidities and the lack of predictive biomarkers to select those patients most likely to benefit from NAC. In the last decade, improved molecular MIBC characterisation, the identification of potential predictive and prognostic biomarkers as well as the incorporation of new effective therapies with a better toxicity profile, such as immunotherapy, has changed the treatment paradigm for MIBC. Therefore, the main goal for the near future is to introduce these clinical and translational advances into routine clinical practice to personalise treatment for each patient and increase the opportunity to implement bladder preservation strategies. The present review focuses on the current status of NAC in MIBC, unsolved questions and future therapeutic approaches.", "substances": ["Cisplatin"]}, {"pmid": "35803889", "year": "2022", "title": "The increasing indications of FDG-PET/CT in the staging and management of Invasive Bladder Cancer.", "summary": "The management of locally advanced muscle invasive bladder cancer (MIBC) often necessitates neo-adjuvant chemotherapy (NAC) to eliminate any micro-metastatic disease prior to definitive radical cystectomy (RC) and pelvic lymph node dissection (PLND). The most common imaging techniques traditionally used during this process are computerised tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), both of which lack a high sensitivity for nodal staging. In this paper, we attempt to review the evolving indications of F-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose positron emission tomography/computerised tomography (FDG-PET/CT) imaging, in the pre-clinical and post-treatment staging of bladder cancer, with a focus on its ability to evaluate response to NAC. We concluded that use of FDG-PET/CT allows for improved nodal staging and metastatic disease detection, compared to traditional imaging modalities. This enabled earlier detection of tumour response to NAC and/or residual disease, impacting factors such as duration of chemotherapy, with its associated adverse effects, and timing of surgical intervention. However, further studies are required to reliably assess its impact on both overall and disease-free survival.", "substances": ["Radiopharmaceuticals", "Fluorodeoxyglucose F18"]}, {"pmid": "35238147", "year": "2022", "title": "Clinical evidence and insights supporting the use of avelumab first-line maintenance treatment in patients with advanced urothelial carcinoma in the Asia-Pacific region.", "summary": "Until recently, international and Asia-specific guidelines for advanced urothelial carcinoma (UC) recommended first-line (1L) platinum-based chemotherapy, followed by second-line (2L) anti-PD-1 or anti-PD-L1 immune checkpoint inhibitor (ICI) therapy where possible, or 1L ICI therapy in cisplatin-ineligible patients with PD-L1+ tumors. However, long-term outcomes remain poor and only a minority of patients receive 2L therapy. The JAVELIN Bladder 100 trial-which assessed avelumab (anti-PD-L1 antibody) as 1L maintenance therapy plus best supportive care (BSC) versus BSC alone in patients with advanced UC that had not progressed with 1L platinum-based chemotherapy-is the only phase 3 trial of ICI-based treatment in the 1L setting to show significantly improved overall survival, and this treatment approach is now recommended in updated treatment guidelines. Available data from the trial suggest that efficacy and safety in patients enrolled in the Asia-Pacific region were similar to findings in the overall population. In this review, we discuss the treatment of advanced UC, with a specific focus on studies in the Asia-Pacific region, and summarize key findings supporting the use of avelumab 1L maintenance as a standard of care in this setting both in cisplatin-eligible and cisplatin-ineligible patients and irrespective of PD-L1 status.", "substances": ["Antibodies, Monoclonal, Humanized", "Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors", "avelumab", "Cisplatin"]}, {"pmid": "36159866", "year": "2022", "title": "Immune status for monitoring and treatment of bladder cancer.", "summary": "The high recurrence rate of non-muscle invasive bladder cancer (BC) and poor prognosis of advanced BC are therapeutic challenges that need to be solved. Bacillus Calmette-Guerin (BCG) perfusion was the pioneer immunotherapy for early BC, and the discovery of immune checkpoint inhibitors has created a new chapter in the treatment of advanced BC. The benefit of immunotherapy is highly anticipated, but its effectiveness still needs to be improved. In this review, we collated and analysed the currently available information and explored the mechaisms by which the internal immune imbalance of BC leads to tumour progression. The relationship between immunity and progression and the prognosis of BC has been explored through tests using body fluids such as blood and urine. These analytical tests have attempted to identify specific immuyne cells and cytokines to predict treatment outcomes and recurrence. The diversity and proportion of immune and matrix cells in BC determine the heterogeneity and immune status of tumours. The role and classification of immune cells have also been redefined, e.g., CD4 cells having recognised cytotoxicity in BC. Type 2 immunity, including that mediated by M2 macrophages, Th2 cells, and interleukin (IL)-13, plays an important role in the recurrence and progression of BC. Pathological fibrosis, activated by type 2 immunity and cancer cells, enhances the rate of cancer progression and irreversibility. Elucidating the immune status of BC and clarifying the mechanisms of action of different cells in the tumour microenvironment is the research direction to be explored in the future.", "substances": ["BCG Vaccine", "Cytokines", "Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors", "Interleukins"]}, {"pmid": "35953604", "year": "2022", "title": "An update on antibody-drug conjugates in urothelial carcinoma: state of the art strategies and what comes next.", "summary": "In recent years, considerable progress has been made in increasing the knowledge of tumour biology and drug resistance mechanisms in urothelial cancer. Therapeutic strategies have significantly advanced with the introduction of novel approaches such as immune checkpoint inhibitors and Fibroblast Growth Factor Receptor inhibitors. However, despite these novel agents, advanced urothelial cancer is often still progressive in spite of treatment and correlates with a poor prognosis. The introduction of antibody-drug conjugates consisting of a target-specific monoclonal antibody covalently linked to a payload (cytotoxic agent) is a novel and promising therapeutic strategy. In December 2019, the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) granted accelerated approval to the nectin-4-targeting antibody-drug conjugate, enfortumab vedotin, for the treatment of advanced or metastatic urothelial carcinomas that are refractory to both immune checkpoint inhibitors and platinum-based treatment. Heavily pre-treated urothelial cancer patients reported a significant, 40% response to enfortumab vedotin while other antibody-drug conjugates are currently still under investigation in several clinical trials. We have comprehensively reviewed the available treatment strategies for advanced urothelial carcinoma and outlined the mechanism of action of antibody-drug conjugate agents, their clinical applications, resistance mechanisms and future strategies for urothelial cancer.", "substances": ["Antineoplastic Agents", "Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors", "Immunoconjugates"]}, {"pmid": "35653623", "year": "2022", "title": "Insights on recent innovations in bladder cancer immunotherapy.", "summary": "Bladder carcinoma is the most common genitourinary cancer, with a high prevalence and global incidence. In addition to early detection by cytology, the management of bladder cancer has recently advanced, not only by improvements in conventional treatments such as surgery and chemotherapy, but also through the introduction of immunotherapeutic strategies. The number of approved immunotherapeutic agents has dramatically increased, with various preclinical and clinical applications in cancer drug discovery. Some bladder cancer immunotherapies include immune checkpoint inhibitors, adoptive cell therapy, cytokine-based therapy, bispecific antibodies, and antibody-drug conjugates. This review provides an overview of some of the innovative immunotherapeutic agents approved and in development that can potentially be used in the treatment of bladder cancer.", "substances": ["Antibodies, Bispecific", "Cytokines", "Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors", "Immunoconjugates"]}, {"pmid": "27788495", "year": "2018", "title": "Evaluating the efficacy and safety of intravesical chemotherapies for non-muscle invasive bladder cancer: a network meta-analysis.", "summary": "Various intravesical therapies have been introduced into clinical practices for controlling non-muscle invasive bladder cancer (NMIBC). However, evidence with respect to the efficacy and safety of those intravesical therapies is very limited. Hence, we present a network meta-analysis in order to address this limitation in the current literature. The primary outcomes were the risk of tumor recurrence (TR), tumor progression (TP) and disease-specific mortality (DM). Secondary outcomes included the risk of fever, cystitis and haematuria. Conventional pair-wise and network meta-analysis were both performed for each endpoint. The surface under the cumulative ranking curve (SUCRA) was incorporated in our analysis for ranking the corresponding intravesical instillation interventions. In total, 23 randomized clinical trials (RCTs) were finally included in our study after irrelevant papers were screened out. Results of network meta-analysis suggested that Epirubicin (EPI) was less preferable than Bacille Calmette Guerin (BCG), BCG+EPI, BCG+ Isoniazid (INH), BCG+ Mytomicin C (MMC), Gemcitabine (GEM) and MMC with respect to TR. As suggested by the corresponding ranking probabilities and SUCRA, incorporating EPI or MMC into BCG may enhance the efficacy of BCG monotherapy.", "substances": ["BCG Vaccine", "Deoxycytidine", "Epirubicin", "Mitomycin", "gemcitabine", "Isoniazid"]}, {"pmid": "36199208", "year": "2022", "title": "[Re-Administration of Pembrolizumab for Urothelial Carcinoma after immune-Related Myasthenia Gravis : A Case Report].", "summary": "Immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) provide excellent benefits to the treatment of various cancer types, including urothelial carcinoma. Conversely, they can cause immune-related adverse events (irAEs), and some of them are severe or fatal. Furthermore, evidence on the safety and effectiveness of the readministration of ICIs after the occurrence of irAEs is limited. In this case report, a 78-year-old man who suffered from metastatic right renal pelvic cancer was treated with pembrolizumab. He had a partial response to pembrolizumab, but he developed grade 3 myasthenia gravis. The myasthenia gravis symptoms were immediately relieved by corticosteroids and intravenous immunoglobulin therapy. When the disease rapidly progressed, he was treated again with pembrolizumab. After 5 days, a chest radiograph showed shrinkage of pulmonary metastases. Unfortunately, he died of multiple brain infarctions 7 days after the readministration. We report this case with a literature review on the efficacy and safety of the readministration of ICIs after the occurrence irAEs including myasthenia gravis.", "substances": ["Antibodies, Monoclonal, Humanized", "Antineoplastic Agents, Immunological", "Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors", "Immunoglobulins, Intravenous", "pembrolizumab"]}, {"pmid": "36078542", "year": "2022", "title": "Impact of Effective Intravesical Therapies on Quality of Life in Patients with Non-Muscle Invasive Bladder Cancer: A Systematic Review.", "summary": "Limited studies suggested the long-term positive impact of intravesical BCG immunotherapy and chemotherapy. However, existing evidence was lacking to clarify the impact of many emerging intravesical therapies that have suggested to be effective and safe, which demands treatment-specific QoL studies.", "substances": ["Antineoplastic Agents", "BCG Vaccine"]}, {"pmid": "35598896", "year": "2022", "title": "Predictive biomarkers of response to bacillus Calmette-Gu\u00e9rin immunotherapy and bacillus Calmette-Gu\u00e9rin failure for non-muscle invasive bladder cancer.", "summary": "Within the heterogeneous population of patients with bacillus Calmette-Gu\u00e9rin failure, there are clear differences in prognosis and therapy with regard to the timeline when bacillus Calmette-Gu\u00e9rin failure occurred. There are a variety of classifications which include bacillus Calmette-Gu\u00e9rin refractory disease, relapsing, unresponsive, and intolerant. Further profiling of these patients may help to shed light on other forms of therapy that are less radical. We hereby summarize the different biomarkers that predicts for response to bacillus Calmette-Gu\u00e9rin immunotherapy and bacillus Calmette-Gu\u00e9rin failure for non-muscle invasive bladder cancer.", "substances": ["Adjuvants, Immunologic", "BCG Vaccine", "Biomarkers", "Immunologic Factors"]}, {"pmid": "35976233", "year": "2022", "title": "Network Pharmacology Research and Dual-omic Analyses Reveal the Molecular Mechanism of Natural Product Nodosin Inhibiting Muscle-Invasive Bladder Cancer <i>in Vitro</i> and <i>in Vivo</i>.", "summary": "Bladder cancer, specifically, muscle-invasive bladder cancer (MIBC), is among the most common malignant tumors. Patients with MIBC who cannot tolerate standard drugs require novel treatments. Targeting apoptosis may help treat cancer, which may be achieved with the use of some natural products. Nodosin, found in <i>Isodon serra</i> (Maxim.) Kudo (known as Xihuangcao), may inhibit bladder cancer cells. Transcriptomics and proteomics dual-omic analyses revealed the network pharmacological mechanism: (1) blocking the S phase by up-regulating RPA2, CLSPN, MDC1, PDCD2L, and E2F6 gene expressions, suppressing cancer cell proliferation; (2) inducing apoptosis and autophagy and restraining ferroptosis by up-regulating HMOX1, G0S2, SQSTM1, FTL, SLC7A11, and AIFM2 gene expressions; (3) preventing cancer cell migration by down-regulating NEXN, LIMA1, CFL2, PALLD, and ITGA3 gene expressions. <i>In vivo</i>, nodosin inhibited bladder cancer cell growth in a model of xenograft tumor in nude mice. This study is the first to report basic research findings on the network pharmacological mechanism of cytotoxicity of bladder cancer cells by nodosin, providing novel evidence for the application of nodosin in the field of oncology; however, other mechanisms may be involved in the effects of nodosin for further research. These findings provide a foundation for the development of novel MIBC drugs.", "substances": ["Adaptor Proteins, Signal Transducing", "Biological Products", "CLSPN protein, human", "Cytoskeletal Proteins", "Diterpenes", "LIMA1 protein, human", "Microfilament Proteins", "NEXN protein, mouse", "nodosin"]}, {"pmid": "35608106", "year": "2022", "title": "Targeting <i>FGFR3</i> alterations with adjuvant infigratinib in invasive urothelial carcinoma: the phase III PROOF 302 trial.", "summary": "PROOF 302 is an ongoing randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, adjuvant phase III trial (NCT04197986) in approximately 218 patients from 120 centers worldwide. Eligibility criteria include post-surgical high-risk muscle-invasive upper tract urothelial cancer (85% of patients) or urothelial bladder cancer (15%), susceptible <i>FGFR3</i> alterations (activating mutations, gene fusions or rearrangements), \u2264120\u00a0days following radical surgery and ineligible for/or refusing cisplatin-based (neo)adjuvant chemotherapy. Patients receive either oral infigratinib 125\u00a0mg or placebo daily on days 1-21 of a 28-day cycle for up to 52\u00a0weeks or until recurrence, unacceptable toxicity or death. Primary end point: centrally determined disease-free survival (DFS); secondary end points: investigator-assessed DFS, metastasis-free survival, overall survival and safety/tolerability; exploratory end points: correlative biomarker analysis, quality-of-life and infigratinib pharmacokinetics.", "substances": ["Phenylurea Compounds", "Pyrimidines", "infigratinib", "FGFR3 protein, human", "Receptor, Fibroblast Growth Factor, Type 3"]}, {"pmid": "35580708", "year": "2022", "title": "Intravesical combination therapies for non-muscle invasive bladder cancer: Recent advances and future directions.", "summary": "Bladder cancer is the 10th most frequently diagnosed cancer worldwide with 5-year survival rate around 70%. The current first-line treatment for non-muscle invasive bladder cancer is transurethral resection of bladder tumours followed by intravesical Mycobacterium Bovis Bacillus Calmette-Gu\u00e9rin (BCG) immunotherapy. However, tumor recurrence rate is still high ranging from 31% to 78% within five years. To avoid radical cystectomy, intravesical combination therapies have been developed as salvage treatments to overcome BCG failure. Recent advances in diagnostics thanks to tumor molecular profiling and in treatment such as development of immunotherapies provides more treatment options beyond BCG treatment. This also goes hand-in hand with formulation advances to deliver these new therapies where traditional drug delivery systems might not be suitable, which in turn is completed by challenges to deliver drugs via the intravesical route. In this article the aim was to provide an in-depth analysis of the current developments of intravesical combination therapies, ranging from relatively simple combinations of mixing existed intravesical therapeutic agents (immunotherapies and chemotherapies) to the combined formulations containing advanced gene therapies and targeted therapies, with special focus on therapies that have made it to the clinical trial stage. In addition, recent attempts to utilize device-assisted treatments and novel drug delivery platforms are included. This review also highlights the limitations that still need to be overcome such as the inadequate studies on newly explored drug carriers and proposes potential directions for future work to overcome BCG-failure.", "substances": ["Adjuvants, Immunologic", "BCG Vaccine"]}, {"pmid": "35248739", "year": "2022", "title": "Systematic Review of Case Reports of Bacillus Calmette-Guerin Vascular Infections.", "summary": "We observed that many aspects of BCG vascular infections are similar to other forms of vascular infections. The high incidence of rupture or fistulation and the propensity toward abdominal aortic involvement and its prognosis are similar to those described in other vascular infections. However, our study also highlights 2 idiosyncratic features of BCG vascular infections: association with male sex and concurrent musculoskeletal infections.", "substances": ["BCG Vaccine"]}, {"pmid": "27380916", "year": "2017", "title": "The current status of checkpoint inhibitors in metastatic bladder cancer.", "summary": "For many decades, no significant improvements could be achieved to prolong the survival in metastatic bladder cancer. Recently, systemic immunotherapy with checkpoint inhibitors (anti-PD-L1/anti-CTLA-4) has been introduced as a novel treatment modality for patients with metastatic bladder cancer. We conducted a systematic review according to the PRISMA statement for data published on the clinical efficacy of checkpoint inhibitors in metastatic bladder cancer. Clinical efficacy of anti PD-L1 therapy was investigated in prospective trials in a total of 155 patients. Patients with positive expression for PD-L1 tended towards better overall response rates (ORR) compared to those with negative expression (34/76 vs 10/73, 45 vs 14\u00a0%; p\u00a0=\u00a00.21). Among patients with PD-L1 positive tumors, those with non-visceral metastases exhibited significantly higher ORR compared to those with visceral metastases (82 vs 28\u00a0%; p\u00a0=\u00a00.001). For anti-CTLA4 therapy, there were no data retrievable on clinical efficacy. Although data on clinical efficacy of checkpoint inhibitors in metastatic bladder cancer are currently limited, the efficacy of these drugs might depend mainly on the metastatic volume and immune system integrity. Patients with PD-L1 positive tumors and non-visceral metastases seem to derive the highest benefit from therapy.", "substances": ["Antibodies, Monoclonal", "Antibodies, Monoclonal, Humanized", "B7-H1 Antigen", "CD274 protein, human", "CTLA-4 Antigen", "Ipilimumab", "Nivolumab", "pembrolizumab"]}, {"pmid": "26847182", "year": "2017", "title": "The diagnostic accuracy of 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography and computed tomography in staging bladder cancer: a single-institution study and a systematic review with meta-analysis.", "summary": "FDG-PET-CT was more accurate than CT alone in staging BC in patients undergoing surgery. Standardization of FDG-PET-CT protocol and cost-effectiveness analysis are required before widespread implementation of this technology.", "substances": ["Radiopharmaceuticals", "Fluorodeoxyglucose F18"]}, {"pmid": "35918269", "year": "2022", "title": "Optimal Selection of Patients with Genitourinary Cancers for Anti-PD1/PD-L1 Treatment with a Focus on Urothelial and Renal Cell Carcinoma.", "summary": "Despite the recent approval of numerous immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) for the treatment of genitourinary tumors, predictive biomarkers are still lacking. Different approaches are necessary, as the only approved biomarker for urothelial carcinoma (UC), namely PD-L1 immunostaining, has questionable predictive value. By contrast, tumor-infiltrating cells have been associated with therapy response in both UC and renal cell carcinoma. Tumor-derived gene signatures can further identify patients with pre-existing adaptive immunity. Whereas tumor mutation burden, DNA repair defects, and microsatellite instability are of some predictive value, the utility of single gene mutations has not yet been proved. As ICIs mainly target tumor metastases, analysis of primary tumors appears to be suboptimal. Circulating biomarkers reflecting tumor and systemic alterations in a more complex and dynamic manner are of great potential. The most promising approach is an analysis of complex tumor composition with concomitant consideration of the host immune status, which is also influenced by the gut microbiome. PATIENT SUMMARY: Immunotherapy is one of the treatment options for cancers of the urinary tract and kidney. We review the methods for measuring biomarkers that may predict which patients are most likely to respond to this treatment.", "substances": ["B7-H1 Antigen", "Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors"]}, {"pmid": "35897760", "year": "2022", "title": "Nanodiamonds as Possible Tools for Improved Management of Bladder Cancer and Bacterial Cystitis.", "summary": "Nanodiamonds (NDs) are a class of carbon nanomaterials with sizes ranging from a few nm to micrometres. Due to their excellent physical, chemical and optical properties, they have recently attracted much attention in biomedicine. In addition, their exceptional biocompatibility and the possibility of precise surface functionalisation offer promising opportunities for biological applications such as cell labelling and imaging, as well as targeted drug delivery. However, using NDs for selective targeting of desired biomolecules within a complex biological system remains challenging. Urinary bladder cancer and bacterial cystitis are major diseases of the bladder with high incidence and poor treatment options. In this review, we present: (i) the synthesis, properties and functionalisation of NDs; (ii) recent advances in the study of various NDs used for better treatment of bladder cancer and (iii) bacterial cystitis; and (iv) the use of NDs in theranostics of these diseases.", "substances": ["Nanodiamonds"]}, {"pmid": "35776989", "year": "2022", "title": "Severe and refractory hypocalcaemia secondary to osteoblastic bone metastases in bladder signet ring carcinoma: A case report and literature review.", "summary": "Osteoblastic bone metastases lead to an increased influx of calcium and phosphate into the bone leading to hypocalcaemia and should be considered as a differential in severe and refractory hypocalcaemia. It is rare and has not been described in bladder cancer. Precaution should be taken upon the initiation of antiresorptive in patients with osteoblastic bone metastases.", "substances": ["Calcium, Dietary", "Denosumab", "Calcium"]}, {"pmid": "35670004", "year": "2022", "title": "A novel strategy for treatment of bladder cancer: Antibody-drug conjugates.", "summary": "In the past, there was no second-line chemotherapeutic agent suitable for use when urothelial carcinoma (UC) progressed to platinum-resistant UC. However, recently, several new treatment options, such as immune checkpoint inhibitors or targeted therapy have shifted the treatment paradigm regarding second-line therapeutic modalities. A novel class of therapeutic agents includes an antibody-drug conjugate (ADC). ADCs consist of three characteristics: a monoclonal antibody, linker, and payload. The specificity of the monoclonal antibody facilitates the delivery of a linked cytotoxic drug directly into the target tumor cell. Although various ADCs have been developed and approved for use in treating several solid tumors, almost all ADCs for the treatment of UC are still in the testing phase. Here, we review the key points about ADCs and summarize the novel ADCs that are approved or are involved in ongoing studies in UC.", "substances": ["Antibodies, Monoclonal", "Antineoplastic Agents", "Immunoconjugates"]}, {"pmid": "34955291", "year": "2022", "title": "International Bladder Cancer Group Consensus Statement on Clinical Trial Design for Patients with Bacillus Calmette-Gu\u00e9rin-exposed High-risk Non-muscle-invasive Bladder Cancer.", "summary": "The International Bladder Cancer Group has developed recommendations regarding definitions, endpoints, and clinical trial design for BCG-exposed NMIBC to encourage uniformity among studies in this disease state.", "substances": ["Adjuvants, Immunologic", "BCG Vaccine"]}, {"pmid": "35387485", "year": "2022", "title": "Erdafitinib in locally advanced/metastatic urothelial carcinoma with certain <i>FGFR</i> genetic alterations.", "summary": "FGFR inhibitors represent a new and promising therapeutic approach to urothelial cancer (UC). Erdafitinib (Balversa<sup>\u00a9</sup>) was the first FGFR inhibitor approved for the treatment of metastatic UC, showing proper pharmacological activity and a consistent safety profile in a population with limited or no therapeutic alternatives. While results from comparative phase II and III trials are needed to assess the efficacy of erdafitinib in different clinical settings, there are still questions unsolved regarding a typical class effect of FGFR inhibitors, hyperphosporemia. In this review, the authors focus on the state-of-art administration of erdatifinib in advanced UC, pointing out the more recent evidence, pitfalls and possible future research. Insight on the management of hyperphosporemia in patients undergoing treatment with FGFR inhibitors is also provided.", "substances": ["Protein Kinase Inhibitors", "Pyrazoles", "Quinoxalines", "erdafitinib"]}, {"pmid": "35416053", "year": "2022", "title": "Plain language summary of results from the JAVELIN Bladder 100 study: avelumab maintenance treatment for advanced urothelial cancer.", "summary": "", "substances": ["Antibodies, Monoclonal, Humanized", "avelumab"]}, {"pmid": "35537002", "year": "2022", "title": "Avelumab First-Line Maintenance Treatment in Advanced Bladder Cancer: Practical Implementation Steps for Infusion Nurses.", "summary": "Immune checkpoint inhibitors, such as programmed cell death ligand 1 inhibitors pembrolizumab, nivolumab, atezolizumab, and avelumab, are used to treat patients with advanced urothelial carcinoma (UC). Based on data from the phase 3 JAVELIN Bladder 100 trial, avelumab first-line (1L) maintenance is now considered the standard-of-care treatment for patients with locally advanced or metastatic UC who responded or experienced disease stabilization after 1L platinum-containing chemotherapy, and it is the only category 1 preferred checkpoint inhibitor maintenance option in the National Comprehensive Cancer Network Clinical Practice Guidelines in Oncology for patients with cisplatin-eligible and cisplatin-ineligible locally advanced or metastatic UC. This article reviews key considerations related to avelumab 1L maintenance therapy that infusion nurses should be familiar with, including dosing, administration, and immune-related adverse event recognition and management, to ensure safe and appropriate use of this important and impactful therapy.", "substances": ["Antibodies, Monoclonal, Humanized", "avelumab", "Cisplatin"]}, {"pmid": "35064817", "year": "2022", "title": "Immunotherapy maintenance therapy for advanced urothelial carcinoma (aUC): a comprehensive review.", "summary": "Immunotherapy has revolutionized the systemic treatment of solid tumors, including advanced urothelial carcinoma (aUC), providing durable responses with a favorable safety profile. Multiple immune checkpoint inhibitor agents have been approved in monotherapy in second-line setting, and for a selected group of chemo-na\u00efve cisplatin-ineligible patients with high PD-L1 expression. Despite the incorporation of immunotherapy to the systemic treatment landscape of aUC, platinum-based chemotherapy remains the standard of care in frontline setting for vast majority of patients. Urothelial carcinoma is a chemosensitive disease with response rates of up to 50% to frontline chemotherapy. However, the response to chemotherapy is short lasting with vast majority of patients experiencing disease progression and death within months. In this context, maintenance therapy constitutes an attractive therapeutic strategy to maximize the time to treatment failure. Different cytotoxic and targeted agents have been investigated as maintenance therapy for aUC but have not shown an impact on survival. Avelumab has become the first and only drug to improve overall survival as maintenance therapy after frontline platinum-based therapy in aUC patients and the first drug to be approved in this setting. This article will review the rational for maintenance therapy, the different drugs investigated as maintenance therapy for aUC, and the impact of avelumab maintenance therapy as a new standard of care in the management of aUC.", "substances": ["Antineoplastic Agents", "Immunologic Factors", "Platinum", "Cisplatin"]}, {"pmid": "35083522", "year": "2022", "title": "Adjuvant therapies for non-muscle-invasive bladder cancer: advances during BCG shortage.", "summary": "Non-muscle-invasive bladder cancer (NMIBC) represents a significant global therapeutic challenge, particularly in the era of Bacillus Calmette-Gu\u00e9rin (BCG) shortage. High-risk NMIBC can progress to muscle invasive or metastatic disease in 25% of patients. Optimal treatment selection, according to risk stratification, is imperative. International guidelines slightly differ in their categorisation of low, intermediate and high-risk NMIBC. Nonetheless, a single post-operative instillation of chemotherapy with Mitomycin C (MMC) or Gemcitabine improves relapse-free survival (RFS) in low-risk NMIBC. Induction and maintenance intravesical BCG remains the historical gold standard for patients with intermediate or high-risk NMIBC. However, clinicians may be forced to consider alternatives given the current BCG shortage. Both intravesical MMC and Gemcitabine have been associated with similar efficacy to BCG, albeit in smaller studies. MMC may also be manipulated using a variety of methods to potentiate its effects. BCG treatment delivery may also be modified without affecting efficacy through dose reduction and abbreviation or omission of maintenance therapy. Preliminary data also highlight that directly proceeding to radical cystectomy may not adversely affect long-term quality of life measures. Access to new systemic and intravesical therapies must be prioritised for patients with BCG recurrent or unresponsive disease. When used in conjunction with molecularly defined biomarkers, these agents herald the potential for improved survival outcomes and alleviation of the current BCG shortage.", "substances": ["Adjuvants, Immunologic", "BCG Vaccine", "Mitomycin"]}, {"pmid": "30839322", "year": "2022", "title": "Immunotherapy in Bladder Cancer.", "summary": "This review article summarizes the significance of immunotherapy in treatment of bladder cancer, its side effects, and limitations.", "substances": ["B7-H1 Antigen", "Immunologic Factors", "Nivolumab", "Cisplatin"]}, {"pmid": "35344197", "year": "2022", "title": "Management of Advanced Urothelial Carcinoma in Older and Frail Patients: Have Novel Treatment Approaches Improved Their Care?", "summary": "Patients with urothelial carcinoma tend to be older and frailer with a large number of chronic medical conditions. This is particularly pronounced in those with\u00a0unresectable locally advanced and metastatic urothelial carcinoma. Prior to 2016, treatment options in advanced urothelial carcinoma were limited to chemotherapy, and as a result, a large number of patients were not receiving disease-directed management. Over the last 6 years, multiple alternative modalities including immune checkpoint inhibitors and targeted therapies have been introduced. They are being utilized clinically in older and frail patients, but there are limited studies investigating outcomes in these specific populations. Based upon current evidence, age does not impact the efficacy and tolerance of immune checkpoint inhibitors if patients are fit enough to receive therapy. In frailer patients, immune checkpoint inhibitors appear to be safe, but outcomes from largely retrospective studies demonstrate mixed data regarding their efficacy. Although there are indications from clinical trials that enfortumab vedotin, sacituzumab govitecan, and erdafitinib are also efficacious irrespective of age, there is still not enough evidence to draw definitive conclusions about their use in older and frail patients. Regardless, in all older patients with advanced urothelial carcinoma, it is critical to evaluate for frailty through geriatric screening tools and comprehensive assessments. Combining these evaluations with consideration of an individual patient's goals should be the foundation upon which therapeutic decisions are made in this population of patients.", "substances": ["Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors"]}, {"pmid": "34875700", "year": "2022", "title": "[Liquid biopsy to indvidualise therapy in advanced bladder cancer].", "summary": "Biomarker development is focussing more and more on the analysis of body fluids (\"liquid biopsy\") due to its advantages compared to tissue analysis. In addition to proteins and lipoproteins, circulating tumour cells (CTCs), extracellular vesicles (EVs) and cell-free nucleic acids (DNA, RNA) can be investigated from body fluids. Treatment of muscle-invasive balder cancer (MIBC) is still challenging. Therefore, new biomarkers are warranted to estimate the metastatic risk, to detect metastatic spread at an early time point and to select the most effective systemic therapy in a given patient. This review gives an overview of liquid biopsy from blood in patients with advanced MIBC and considers CTCs, EVs as well as circulating DNA (ctDNA) and non-coding RNA (ncRNA) and their role for prognostic evaluation and selecting treatment.", "substances": ["Biomarkers, Tumor", "Cell-Free Nucleic Acids", "Circulating Tumor DNA"]}, {"pmid": "27323781", "year": "2018", "title": "Single, immediate postoperative instillation of chemotherapy in non-muscle invasive bladder cancer: a systematic review and network meta-analysis of randomized clinical trials using different drugs.", "summary": "We performed a network meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials (RCTs) to compare the efficacy of several intravesical chemotherapeutic (IVC) agents after transurethral resection of bladder tumor (TURB) in non-muscle invasive bladder cancer patients. The literature search was conducted using the Embase, Scopus and PubMed databases for RCTs, including patients with single or multiple, primary or recurrent stage Ta or T1 urothelial carcinoma of the bladder managed with a single, immediate instillation of IVC after TURB. Thirteen RCTs met the eligibility criteria. Pair-wise meta-analysis (direct comparison) showed that pirarubicin [hazard ratio (HR): 0.31], epirubicin (HR: 0.62), and MMC (HR: 0.40) were the most effective drugs for reducing tumor recurrence. Bayesian network meta-analysis (indirect comparison) revealed that treatment with pirarubicin (HR: 0.31), MMC (HR: 0.44), or epirubicin (HR: 0.60) was associated with prolonged recurrence-free survival. Among the drugs examined, only pirarubicin reduced disease progression compared to controls. These results suggest that a single, immediate administration of IVC with pirarubicin, MMC, or epirubicin is associated with prolonged recurrence-free survival following TURB in non-muscle invasive bladder cancer patients, though only pirarubicin also reduced disease progression.", "substances": ["Antineoplastic Agents", "Semustine", "Epirubicin", "Doxorubicin", "Cyclophosphamide", "pirarubicin", "Melphalan"]}, {"pmid": "35691669", "year": "2022", "title": "Mycotic arterial aneurysm secondary to BCG intravesical instillation: A review.", "summary": "BCG mycotic aneurysm is an extremely serious condition, the diagnosis of which must be considered at an early stage in order to adapt diagnostic and therapeutic strategies.", "substances": ["BCG Vaccine"]}, {"pmid": "35246373", "year": "2022", "title": "The role of tumour microenvironment-driven miRNAs in the chemoresistance of muscle-invasive bladder cancer-a review.", "summary": "Successful treatment for muscle-invasive bladder cancer is challenged by the ability of cancer cells to resist chemotherapy. While enormous progress has been made toward understanding the divergent molecular mechanisms underlying chemoresistance, the heterogenous interplay between the bladder tumour and its microenvironment presents significant challenges in comprehending the occurrence of chemoresistance. The last decade has seen exponential interest in the exploration of microRNA (miRNA) as a tool in the management of chemoresistance. In this review, we highlight the miRNAs involved in the tumour microenvironment crosstalk that contributes to the chemoresistance in bladder cancer. Decrypting the role of miRNAs in the interplay beholds scope for future clinical translational application in managing the long-standing concerns of chemoresistance in muscle-invasive bladder cancer.", "substances": ["MicroRNAs"]}, {"pmid": "35180563", "year": "2022", "title": "The evolving panorama of HER2-targeted treatments in metastatic urothelial cancer: A systematic review and future perspectives.", "summary": "ERBB2 amplification could become a novel target in mUC, although the magnitude of clinical benefit remains to be clarified. To this regard, novel ADCs are the most promising strategy. ERBB2 mutations are still at very early stage of clinical study.", "substances": ["Antineoplastic Agents", "Receptor, ErbB-2", "Trastuzumab"]}, {"pmid": "35089362", "year": "2022", "title": "[Metastatic urothelial carcinoma-guideline-based therapy and new options].", "summary": "Due to the approval of immuno-oncological therapies with immune checkpoint inhibitors, the treatment of metastatic urothelial carcinoma has become more complex in all lines of therapy. Thus, in first-line treatment, immunotherapy alone or immune maintenance therapy following platinum-based chemotherapy can be applied in addition to treatment with platinum-based combination therapies alone. In addition to the approval status and guideline recommendation, patient-specific factors such as comorbidities as well as patient preference must always be considered when choosing a\u00a0therapy. In the following, we summarize the current data on treatment options in the first-line therapy of metastatic urothelial carcinoma and illustrate their practical application using a\u00a0patient example.", "substances": ["Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors"]}, {"pmid": "36274226", "year": "2022", "title": "Bacillus Calmette-Guerin for the Treatment of Non-muscle Invasive Bladder Cancer: History and Current Status.", "summary": "In the past decades, the bacillus Calmette-Guerin (BCG) treatment for non-muscle invasive bladder cancer, especially for intermediate and high-risk groups, is increasingly accepted by multiple guidelines. Currently, the front-line setting for the high-risk group is still intravesical BCG instillation. However, the BCG mechanism, usage, adverse events, and the definition of BCG failure are not yet fully understood or defined. In addition, despite BCG being generally efficacious, a number of bladder cancer patients are unresponsive to the BCG immunotherapy. In this review, we summarize the history and current status of BCG immunotherapy, and highlight recent developments in designing novel strategies for the treatment of BCG-unresponsive patients.", "substances": ["BCG Vaccine"]}, {"pmid": "35015593", "year": "2022", "title": "Avelumab in locally advanced or metastatic urothelial carcinoma.", "summary": "Immune checkpoint inhibitor treatment in metastatic UC holds much promise, but has not been optimized. First-line maintenance avelumab is an attractive option for these patients. Future research will significantly change the landscape of treatment in the near future.", "substances": ["Antibodies, Monoclonal, Humanized", "Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors", "avelumab"]}, {"pmid": "34840077", "year": "2022", "title": "Targeted therapies: Expanding the role of FGFR3 inhibition in urothelial carcinoma.", "summary": "The management of urothelial carcinoma (UC) has rapidly advanced in recent years with new approvals for immune checkpoint inhibitors and antibody-drug conjugates. However, while many UC tumors contain potentially actionable mutations, the role for targeted small molecule inhibitors has been limited. One such target is the fibroblast growth factor receptor (FGFR) family of proteins. Activating mutations and amplifications of FGFR3 are common in UC with higher incidences seen in upper tract as compared to lower tract disease. Consequently, multiple FGFR-directed targeted therapies have been developed and trialed in both UC and other solid tumors harboring FGFR mutations. At current, erdafitinib, an inhibitor of FGFR1-4, is the only approved targeted therapy in metastatic UC following the BLC2001 study, which demonstrated a 49% overall response rate in patients with UC harboring an FGFR3 mutation. Additional FGFR-directed agents also continue to be investigated across multiple disease stages in FGFR-mutated UC including infigratinib, rogaratinib, and AZD4547, among others. Ongoing trials are combining these agents with immune checkpoint inhibitors and chemotherapy regimens. The precision medicine revolution has begun in UC, and FGFR3 inhibitors are leading the charge toward a more personalized, biomarker-driven treatment paradigm.", "substances": ["Protein Kinase Inhibitors", "FGFR3 protein, human", "Receptor, Fibroblast Growth Factor, Type 3"]}, {"pmid": "35269424", "year": "2022", "title": "Antibody-Drug Conjugates in Urothelial Carcinoma: A New Therapeutic Opportunity Moves from Bench to Bedside.", "summary": "Significant progress has been achieved over the last decades in understanding the biology and mechanisms of tumor progression in urothelial carcinoma (UC). Although the therapeutic landscape has dramatically changed in recent years with the introduction of immune checkpoint inhibitors, advanced UC is still associated with rapidly progressing disease and poor survival. The increasing knowledge of the pathogenesis and molecular pathways underlying cancer development and progression is leading the introduction of target therapies, such as the recently approved FGFR inhibitor Erdafitinib, or the anti-nectin 4 antibody drug-conjugate Enfortumab vedotin. Antibody drug conjugates represent an innovative therapeutic approach that allows the combination of a tar get-specific monoclonal antibody covalently conjugated via a linker to a cytotoxic agent (payload). UC is a perfect candidate for this therapeutic approach since it is particularly enriched in antigen expression on its surface and each specific antigen can represent a potential therapeutic target. In this review we summarize the mechanism of action of ADCs, their applications in localized and metastatic UC, the main mechanisms of resistance, and future perspectives for their use in clinical practice.", "substances": ["Antineoplastic Agents", "Immunoconjugates", "Protein Kinase Inhibitors"]}, {"pmid": "34750935", "year": "2022", "title": "Current status of photodynamic technology for urothelial cancer.", "summary": "5-Aminolevulinic acid is a new-generation photosensitizer with high tumor specificity. It has been used successfully in the diagnosis, treatment, and screening of urological cancers including bladder cancer; specifically, it has been used in photodynamic diagnosis to detect tumors by illuminating the lesion with a specific wavelength of light to produce fluorescence in the lesion after administration of 5-aminolevulinic acid, in photodynamic therapy, which induces tumor cell death via production of cytotoxic reactive oxygen species, and in photodynamic screening, in which porphyrin excretion in the blood and urine is used as a tumor biomarker after administration of 5-aminolevulinic acid. In addition to these applications in urological cancers, 5-aminolevulinic acid-based photodynamic technology is expected to be used as a novel strategy for a large number of cancer types because it is based on a property of cancer cells known as the Warburg effect, which is a basic biological property that is common across all cancers.", "substances": ["Biomarkers, Tumor", "Photosensitizing Agents", "Porphyrins", "Reactive Oxygen Species", "Aminolevulinic Acid"]}, {"pmid": "34312011", "year": "2022", "title": "The impact of preoperative immune checkpoint inhibitors on kidney and bladder cancer surgeries: a systematic review<sup>\u2606</sup>.", "summary": "Therapies based on the use of immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs), such as nivolumab, pembrolizumab, ipilimumab, atezolizumab, avelumab, and durvalumab, have proven effective in the treatment of metastatic urological neoplasms. Recently, it has been hypothesized that the use of this type of treatment prior to surgery could lead to an increased difficulty in renal and bladder surgeries. The literature concerning this topic, however, is still scarce and non-consensual. In our systematic review, we used the PRISMA guidelines methodology to search the pertinent literature available up to June 18, 2020 in PubMed. Additionally, we searched the related grey literature in the abstracts of the meetings of the American Society of Clinical Oncology (ASCO), American Society of Clinical Oncology Genitourinary (ASCO-GU), European Society of Medical Oncology (ESMO), and American Urological Association (AUA) from 2015 to 2020. We were able to find only 16 publications that addressed the use of ICIs prior to surgery in kidney and bladder neoplasms. The results were conflicting, and usually the issue of surgical difficulties after the use of ICIs was not directly approached. We hope that our publication may raise the awareness towards the need to further investigate the effects of neoadjuvant ICIs on surgical outcomes in urologic cancers.", "substances": ["Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors"]}, {"pmid": "35200559", "year": "2022", "title": "Current Advances in Immune Checkpoint Inhibition and Clinical Genomics in Upper Tract Urothelial Carcinoma: State of the Art.", "summary": "Upper tract urothelial carcinoma (UTUC) is a rare and challenging-to-treat malignancy. In most patients it is a sporadic tumor entity, less commonly it falls on the spectrum of Lynch syndrome, an autosomal dominant familial tumor syndrome. Localized UTUC with high-risk features as well as the metastatic disease scenario might require systemic therapy. Platinum-based combination chemotherapy is currently the recommended management option. However, the introduction of immune checkpoint inhibitors into the therapeutic armamentarium has led to a paradigm shift in treatment standards. Immunotherapy has been shown to be safe and effective in treating at least metastatic UTUC, although UTUC-specific high-level evidence is still lacking. Recent technological advances and noteworthy research efforts have greatly improved the general understanding of the biological landscape of UTUC. According to the main findings, UTUC represent a particular subtype of urothelial carcinoma frequently associated with activated FGFR3 signaling, a luminal-papillary phenotype and a T-cell-depleted microenvironment. This improved knowledge promises precision oncology approaches that match treatment decision strategies and genomic profile to ultimately result in better clinical outcomes. The aim of this review was to summarize the main currently available evidence on immune checkpoint inhibition and clinical genomics in UTUC.", "substances": ["Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors"]}, {"pmid": "35163996", "year": "2022", "title": "Advances in Management of Bladder Cancer-The Role of Photodynamic Therapy.", "summary": "Photodynamic therapy (PDT) is a non-invasive and modern form of therapy. It is used in the treatment of non-oncological diseases and more and more often in the treatment of various types of neoplasms in various locations including bladder cancer. The PDT method consists of local or systemic application of a photosensitizer, i.e., a photosensitive compound that accumulates in pathological tissue. Light of appropriate wavelength is absorbed by the photosensitizer molecules, which in turn transfers energy to oxygen or initiates radical processes that leads to selective destruction of diseased cells. The technique enables the selective destruction of malignant cells, as the photocytotoxicity reactions induced by the photosensitizer take place strictly within the pathological tissue. PDT is known to be well tolerated in a clinical setting in patients. In cited papers herein no new safety issues were identified. The development of anti-cancer PDT therapies has greatly accelerated over the last decade. There was no evidence of increased or cumulative toxic effects with each PDT treatment. Many modifications have been made to enhance the effects. Clinically, bladder cancer remains one of the deadliest urological diseases of the urinary system. The subject of this review is the anti-cancer use of PDT, its benefits and possible modifications that may lead to more effective treatments for bladder cancer. Bladder cancer, if localized, would seem to be a good candidate for PDT therapy since this does not involve the toxicity of systemic chemotherapy and can spare normal tissues from damage if properly carried out. It is clear that PDT deserves more investment in clinical research, especially for plant-based photosensitizers. Natural PS isolated from plants and other biological sources can be considered a green approach to PDT in cancer therapy. Currently, PDT is widely used in the treatment of skin cancer, but numerous studies show the advantages of related therapeutic strategies that can help eliminate various types of cancer, including bladder cancer. PDT for bladder cancer in which photosensitizer is locally activated and generates cytotoxic reactive oxygen species and causing cell death, is a modern treatment. Moreover, PDT is an innovative technique in oncologic urology.", "substances": ["Photosensitizing Agents"]}, {"pmid": "35163064", "year": "2022", "title": "Novel Therapeutic Opportunities in Neoadjuvant Setting in Urothelial Cancers: A New Horizon Opened by Molecular Classification and Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors.", "summary": "Muscle invasive bladder cancer (MIBC) is a widespread malignancy with a worse prognosis often related to a late diagnosis. For early-stage MIBC pts, a multidisciplinary approach is mandatory to evaluate the timing of neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NAC) and surgery. The current standard therapy is platinum-based NAC (MVAC-methotrexate, vinblastine, doxorubicin, and cisplatin or Platinum-Gemcitabine regimens) followed by radical cystectomy (RC) with lymphadenectomy. However, preliminary data from Vesper trial highlighted that dose-dense NAC MVAC is endowed with a good pathological response but shows low tolerability. In the last few years, translational-based research approaches have identified several candidate biomarkers of NAC esponsiveness, such as ERCC2, ERBB2, or DNA damage response (DDR) gene alterations. Moreover, the recent consensus MIBC molecular classification identified six molecular subtypes, characterized by different sensitivity to chemo- or targeted or immunotherapy, that could open a novel procedure for patient selection and also for neoadjuvant therapies. The Italian PURE-01 phase II Trial extended data on efficacy and resistance to Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors (ICIs) in this setting. In this review, we summarize the most relevant literature data supporting NAC use in MIBC, focusing on novel therapeutic strategies such as immunotherapy, considering the better patient stratification and selection emerging from novel molecular classification.", "substances": ["Biomarkers, Tumor", "Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors"]}, {"pmid": "34766841", "year": "2022", "title": "Cabozantinib plus immunotherapy combinations in metastatic renal cell and urothelial carcinoma.", "summary": "Treatment options for metastatic renal cell carcinoma (mRCC) and metastatic urothelial carcinoma (mUC) have increased dramatically over the past decade. However, even when novel approaches have proven to be effective as monotherapy, many patients still develop progressive disease, and different strategies are needed to increase clinical response and quality of life. Strategies combining targeted therapy (TT) and immunotherapy (IO) have emerged as a way to shorten the gap between responders and nonresponders to monotherapy and have reported promising results. In this review, we discuss the current role of cabozantinib in combination with IO agents in the treatment of metastatic RCC and UC and go over future directions in the field.", "substances": ["Anilides", "Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors", "Pyridines", "cabozantinib"]}, {"pmid": "34742583", "year": "2022", "title": "The 2021 Updated European Association of Urology Guidelines on Metastatic Urothelial Carcinoma.", "summary": "This 2021 update of the EAU guideline provides detailed and contemporary information on the treatment of metastatic urothelial carcinoma for incorporation into clinical practice.", "substances": ["Cisplatin"]}, {"pmid": "34719363", "year": "2022", "title": "Role of Pentacyclic Triterpenoid Acids in the Treatment of Bladder Cancer.", "summary": "Bladder cancer carries a poor prognosis and has proven resistance to chemotherapy. Pentacyclic Triterpenoid Acids (PTAs) are natural bioactive compounds that have a well-known impact on cancer research because of their cytotoxic and chemopreventive activities. This review focuses on bladder cancer which can no longer be successfully treated by DNA damaging drugs. Unlike most of the existing drugs against bladder cancer, PTAs are non-toxic to normal cells. Collecting findings from both in vitro and in vivo studies, it has been concluded that PTAs may serve as promising agents in future bladder cancer therapy. In this review, the roles of various PTAs in bladder cancer have been explored, and their mechanisms of action in the treatment of bladder cancer have been described. Specific PTAs have been shortlisted from each of the chief skeletons of pentacyclic triterpenoids, which could be effective against bladder cancer because of their mode of action. This review thereby throws light on the multi targets and mechanisms of PTAs, which are responsible for their selective anticancer effects and provides guidelines for further research and development of new natural antitumor compounds.", "substances": ["Antineoplastic Agents", "Triterpenes"]}, {"pmid": "35159167", "year": "2022", "title": "New Perspectives in the Medical Treatment of Non-Muscle-Invasive Bladder Cancer: Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors and Beyond.", "summary": "Non-muscle-invasive bladder cancer (NMIBC) is characterized by a high rate of cure, but also by a non-negligible probability of recurrence and risk progression to muscle-invasive disease. NMIBC management requires a proper local resection and staging, followed by a risk-based treatment with intravesical agents. For many years, the current gold standard treatment for patients with intermediate or high-risk disease is transurethral resection of the bladder (TURB) followed by intravesical bacillus Calmette-Gu\u00e9rin (BCG) instillations. Unfortunately, in about half of high-risk patients, intravesical BCG treatment fails and NMIBC persists or recurs early. While radical cystectomy remains the gold standard for these patients, new therapeutic targets are being individuated and studied. Radical cystectomy in fact can provide an excellent long-term disease control, but can deeply interfere with quality of life. In particular, the enhanced immune checkpoints expression shown in BCG-unresponsive patients and the activity of immune checkpoints inhibitors (ICIs) in advanced bladder cancer provided the rationale for testing ICIs in NMIBC. Recently, pembrolizumab has shown promising activity in BCG-unresponsive NMIBC patients, obtaining FDA approval. Meanwhile multiple novel drugs with alternative mechanisms of action have proven to be safe and effective in NMIBC treatment and others are under investigation. The aim of this review is to analyse and describe the clinical activity of new emerging drugs in BCG-unresponsive NMIBC focusing on immunotherapy results.", "substances": ["BCG Vaccine", "Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors"]}, {"pmid": "35093030", "year": "2022", "title": "Raman spectroscopy biochemical characterisation of bladder cancer cisplatin resistance regulated by FDFT1: a review.", "summary": "Bladder cancer is the fourth most common malignancy in males. It can present across the whole continuum of severity, from mild through well-differentiated disease to extremely malignant tumours with poor survival rates. As with other vital organ malignancies, proper clinical management involves accurate diagnosis and staging. Chemotherapy consisting of a cisplatin-based regimen is the mainstay in the management of muscle-invasive bladder cancers. Control via cisplatin-based chemotherapy is threatened by the development of chemoresistance. Intracellular cholesterol biosynthesis in bladder cancer cells is considered a contributory factor in determining the chemotherapy response. Farnesyl-diphosphate farnesyltransferase 1 (FDFT1), one of the main regulatory components in cholesterol biosynthesis, may play a role in determining sensitivity towards chemotherapy compounds in bladder cancer. FDFT1-associated molecular identification might serve as an alternative or appendage strategy for early prediction of potentially chemoresistant muscle-invasive bladder cancer tissues. This can be accomplished using Raman spectroscopy. Developments in the instrumentation have led to it becoming one of the most convenient forms of analysis, and there is a highly realistic chance that it will become an effective tool in the pathology lab. Chemosensitive bladder cancer tissues tend to have a higher lipid content, more protein genes and more cholesterol metabolites. These are believed to be associated with resistance towards bladder cancer chemotherapy. Herein, Raman peak assignments have been tabulated as an aid to indicating metabolic changes in bladder cancer tissues that are potentially correlated with FDFT1 expression.", "substances": ["Cisplatin"]}], "Duodenal Neoplasms": [{"pmid": "26348463", "year": "2016", "title": "Advances in Molecular Pathology and Treatment of Periampullary Cancers.", "summary": "Future trials should be designed in view of our increased understanding of the different anatomic and histomolecularly profiled subtypes of PAC cancers, which respects their individual molecular characteristics, phenotype, and response to treatment.", "substances": ["Antineoplastic Agents", "Biomarkers, Tumor"]}, {"pmid": "25812510", "year": "2015", "title": "[A case of ampullary carcinoma progression-free for four years after treatment with TS-1].", "summary": "A 63-year old man was referred to our hospital because of fever, appetite loss, and increased biliary enzyme levels. Upper gastrointestinal endoscopy revealed a tumor in the duodenal papilla, diagnosed as an adenocarcinoma via biopsy, and computed tomography (CT) revealed multiple tumors in the liver. Chemotherapy with TS-1 was initiated based on a diagnosis of ampullary cancer with multiple liver metastases. After TS-1 treatment, the multiple tumors were no longer detectable, and the primary tumor did not increase in size for 4 years. At this time, however, the patient experienced fever, jaundice, and appetite loss. The hepatic mass was not detected via CT or MRI. The primary tumor was determined to be resectable; therefore, we performed subtotal stomach preserving pancreatoduodenectomy. The patient was discharged 55 days after surgery and is alive without recurrence 2 years after surgery.", "substances": ["Silicates", "titanium silicide", "Titanium"]}, {"pmid": "25482907", "year": "2015", "title": "Primary squamous cell carcinoma of the duodenum effectively treated with TS-1: a case report.", "summary": "An 89-year-old man was admitted to our hospital for thorough investigation of refractory diabetes mellitus, which revealed primary squamous cell carcinoma of the duodenum. After two courses of chemotherapy, follow-up esophagoduodenogastroscopy and duodenal biopsy showed no evidence of tumor. No findings were suggestive of recurrence of the primary lesion 19 months after starting chemotherapy. This case suggests that chemotherapy including TS-1 may be effective for treating unresectable primary squamous cell carcinoma of the duodenum.", "substances": ["Silicates", "titanium silicide", "Titanium"]}, {"pmid": "24231711", "year": "2013", "title": "[A case of liver metastasis of primary duodenal cancer effectively treated with docetaxel therapy].", "summary": "A 75-year-old man who complained of upper abdominal discomfort was diagnosed with primary duodenal cancer. The patient was treated with a pancreaticoduodenectomy, ascending colectomy and postoperative chemotherapy of S-1 and irinotecan[IRIS; S-1, 80mg/m2(days 1-14); irinotecan, 100 mg/m2(days 1 and 15, every 4 weeks)]. However, after 4 IRIS cycles, computed tomography revealed a liver metastasis and massive ascites. The patient received second-line chemotherapy of tri-weekly docetaxel[60mg/m2,(day 1, every 3 weeks)]. After 2 cycles of docetaxel therapy, the liver tumor and ascites became undetectable. The patient was doing well 13 months after the operation. ", "substances": ["Antineoplastic Agents", "Taxoids", "Docetaxel"]}, {"pmid": "21499002", "year": "2011", "title": "[A case report of primary duodenal adenocarcinoma responding to chemotherapy with S-1 and irinotecan].", "summary": "A 5 3-year-old woman was admitted to our hospital because of vomiting. CT scan and gastroduodenoscopy showed severe stenosis of the duodenal 3rd portion. There was no evidence of malignancy. We diagnosed a stricture due to a duodenal ulcer and laparotomy was performed. By means of biopsy of No.14d lymph node in the operation, adenocarcinoma of the duodenum was pointed out and we performed a pancreatoduodenectomy. Although adjuvant chemotherapy with S-1/paclitaxel (S-1 80 mg/body, po, day 1-14 and paclitaxel 120 mg/body iv day 1, 8)was administered after operation, the patient's serum CEA was elevated and metastic lymph nodes around the supra mesenteric artery were pointed out. The patient was started on combined chemotherapy with S-1/CPT-11(S-1 80 mg/body, po, day 1-14 and CPT-11 120 mg/body iv day 1), serum CEA levels returned to normal range, and marked reduction of lymph node size was observed on CT. The patient is still alive and free of disease three years after the operation. S-1/CPT-11 could therefore be a treatment option for patients with duodenal carcinoma.", "substances": ["Drug Combinations", "S 1 (combination)", "Tegafur", "Oxonic Acid", "Irinotecan", "Camptothecin"]}, {"pmid": "17985097", "year": "2008", "title": "Medical treatment of gastrinomas.", "summary": "Gastrinomas are functional neuroendocrine tumors of the gastroenteropancreatic system. Surgery is first line treatment in gastrinomas, however often fails to be curative. This manuscript reviews current strategies of medical treatment of surgically non-curable gastrinoma. Symptomatic treatment with H(+)-K(+)-ATPase proton-pump inhibitors suppresses hypersecretion of gastric acid and substantially improves quality of life in patients with Zollinger-Ellison syndrome. Further medical therapy is only recommended in cases of progressive metastatic gastrinoma. In well differentiated neuroendocrine carcinoma (G1 and G2) a so-called biotherapy with somatostatin analogues exists as first-line and chemotherapy with streptocotozin plus doxorubicine/5-FU as second-line medical treatment option. In poorly differentiated neuroendocrine carcinoma (G3) chemotherapy with etoposide plus cisplatin is possible. Prospective future therapeutic strategies may include treatment with novel somatostatin analogues as well as angiogenesis inhibitors and kinase inhibitors targeting tumor-specific signaling cascades.", "substances": ["Angiogenesis Inhibitors", "Gastrins", "Interferon-alpha", "Peptides, Cyclic", "Proton Pump Inhibitors", "lanreotide", "Somatostatin", "Octreotide"]}], "Stomach Neoplasms": [{"pmid": "36193493", "year": "2022", "title": "Meta-Analysis of Efficacy and Safety of Karelizumab Combined with Apatinib in the Treatment of Advanced Gastric Cancer.", "summary": "Karelizumab combined with apatinib is effective in the treatment of advanced gastric cancer, with low incidence of adverse reactions and high safety. However, a large number of multicenter, large sample size, and high-level RCT are needed for clinical verification.", "substances": ["Biomarkers, Tumor", "Pyridines", "Tumor Necrosis Factor-alpha", "Interleukin-10", "Interleukin-4", "apatinib"]}, {"pmid": "36049075", "year": "2022", "title": "Efficacy of the Short-Term versus Long-Term Administration of Antimicrobial Prophylaxis in Gastric Cancer Surgery: A Meta-Analysis of Randomized Controlled Trials.", "summary": "<b><i>Background:</i></b> We performed a meta-analysis to confirm the efficacy of short-term compared with long-term administration of antimicrobial prophylaxis in gastric cancer surgery. <b><i>Methods:</i></b> Randomized controlled trials of the efficacy of short-term versus long-term administration of antimicrobial prophylaxis in gastric cancer surgery were searched using the MEDLINE, EMBASE, and the Cochrane Controlled Trials Register databases. The data were evaluated and statistically analyzed using RevMan version 5.3.0. Five studies including 2,053 participants who received short-term versus long-term administration of antimicrobial prophylaxis in gastric cancer surgery were considered. <b><i>Results:</i></b> There was no significant difference in the surgical site infection (SSI) rate between the short-term group and the long-term group (8.1% vs. 9.2%; odds ratio [OR], 0.87; 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.64-1.09; p\u2009=\u20090.39). Hierarchical analysis also showed no significant differences in incisional-site incisions, organ/space incisions, or leakage. Multivariable analysis showed no significant differences in gender, age (>65 years), body mass index (>25\u2009kg/m<sup>2</sup>), D2, operation time (>3 hours), pathologic stage 3, blood loss, combined resection, diabetes mellitus, total gastrectomy, or blood transfusion between the two groups. <b><i>Conclusions:</i></b> Short-term administration of antimicrobial prophylaxis did not increase the incidence of SSIs after gastrectomy.", "substances": ["Anti-Bacterial Agents", "Anti-Infective Agents"]}, {"pmid": "35685487", "year": "2022", "title": "Statins Are Associated with Improved Survival of Patients with Gastric Cancer: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis.", "summary": "Statins are associated with gastric cancer (GC) risk. The present study aimed to clarify the efficacy of statins on the overall survival (OS) benefits in patients with GC. Publications were retrieved from PubMed, Embase, and the Cochrane Library as of April 2022. Data from the eligible cohort, case-control studies, and randomized control trials (RCTs) were extracted for the meta-analysis. Hazard ratio (HR) and 95% confidence intervals (CI) were used to assess the association between statins users and OS in GC patients. Subgroup analysis was performed based on the study design (prospective <i>vs</i>. retrospective). A total of 6 studies encompassing 5693 GC patients were included. Statins added to the standard treatment prolonged the patient's OS outcome (HR (95% CI): 0.72 (0.53-0.97), <i>p</i>\u2009=\u20090.032; <i>I</i> <sup>2</sup>\u2009=\u200988.0%, <i>p</i> <sub><i>heterogeneity</i></sub> \u2009<\u20090.001). A prospective study did not find any statistically significant difference in OS between statins users <i>vs</i>. nonstatin users (HR (95% CI): 0.92 (0.68-1.26), <i>p</i>\u2009=\u20090.614; <i>I</i> <sup>2</sup>\u2009=\u200911.7%, <i>p</i> <sub><i>heterogeneity</i></sub> \u2009=\u20090.322), whereas the retrospective studies showed prolonged OS in statins users (HR (95% CI): 0.63 (0.42-0.961), <i>p</i>\u2009=\u20090.032; <i>I</i> <sup>2</sup>\u2009=\u200994.6%, <i>p</i> <sub><i>heterogeneity</i></sub> \u2009<\u20090.001). Statin users had significantly improved OS compared to nonstatin users in GC treatment. This long-term survival benefit was only observed in the pooled analysis of retrospective studies but not in prospective studies.", "substances": ["Hydroxymethylglutaryl-CoA Reductase Inhibitors"]}, {"pmid": "35364261", "year": "2022", "title": "The role of immune checkpoint inhibitors in the treatment sequence of advanced gastric or gastro-esophageal junction cancer: A systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized trials.", "summary": "overall survival(OS) and progression free survival(PFS) data obtained in our meta-analysis, are in favor to use ICIs in association with standard first line chemotherapy for G/GEJ cancer patients regardless to CPS status.", "substances": ["Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors"]}, {"pmid": "35150600", "year": "2022", "title": "Effects of enhanced education for patients with the Helicobacter pylori infection: A systematic review and meta-analysis.", "summary": "Patient education is inexpensive, safe, and convenient. In this context, our findings suggest that enhanced educational interventions have positive effects on both the H.\u00a0pylori eradication rate and adherence among infected patients, and thus constitute promising complements to clinical treatment regimens.", "substances": ["Anti-Bacterial Agents"]}, {"pmid": "34656747", "year": "2021", "title": "A Bayesian network meta-analysis on systemic therapy for previously treated gastric cancer.", "summary": "We conducted a systemic literature review of randomized controlled trials (RCTs) to identify phase III RCTs on salvage treatment of advanced gastric cancer (AGC) and performed a Bayesian network meta-analysis with random-effects model. The overall survival (OS) was the primary outcome of interest. A total of 20 randomized phase III trials were selected. For the second-line treatment, olaparib plus paclitaxel had the highest surface under the cumulative ranking curve value (90.5%), followed by paclitaxel plus ramucirumab (88.4%) and pembrolizumab (86.5%), indicating that these treatments could be the most effective regimens in terms of OS. Nivolumab, chemotherapy, and apatinib showed significant OS benefit compared with best supportive care for the third-line treatment. In conclusion, pembrolizumab may be the most preferable regimen as a second-line treatment for patients with PD-L1-expressing AGC, while paclitaxel-based combinations are recommended for PD-L1-negative AGC. Nivolumab might be the most preferable third-line treatment.", "substances": ["Nivolumab", "Paclitaxel"]}, {"pmid": "34333811", "year": "2021", "title": "Effect of Helicobacter pylori eradication on hyperplastic gastric polyps: A systematic review and meta-analysis.", "summary": "Our meta-analysis showed that after the eradication of H. pylori, most GHPs are eliminated. Moreover, the treatment/successful eradication of H. pylori increased the GHP elimination rate by more than 20 times that in the control group.", "substances": ["Anti-Bacterial Agents"]}, {"pmid": "33618535", "year": "2021", "title": "The Anti-PD-1/PD-L1 Immunotherapy for Gastric Esophageal Cancer: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis and Literature Review.", "summary": "For the treatment of advanced gastric esophageal cancer, the therapeutic efficacy of anti-PD-1/PD-L1 immunotherapy was superior to that of chemotherapy or palliative care.", "substances": ["Antibodies, Monoclonal, Humanized"]}, {"pmid": "30919257", "year": "2019", "title": "Efficacy and safety of oxaliplatin-based regimen versus cisplatin-based regimen in the treatment of gastric cancer: a meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials.", "summary": "Compared with cisplatin-based regimen, oxaliplatin-based regimen treatment has an obvious advantage in patients with GC with acceptable tolerance.", "substances": ["Oxaliplatin", "Cisplatin"]}, {"pmid": "30264641", "year": "2019", "title": "Continuation of trastuzumab beyond progression in HER2-positive advanced esophagogastric cancer: a meta-analysis.", "summary": "This meta-analysis showed that patients who progressed on first-line trastuzumab-based therapy but of whom trastuzumab was continued in second-line and added to chemotherapy did not show longer OS or a higher ORR compared to patients receiving second-line chemotherapy-alone. However, PFS was prolonged and trastuzumab was not associated with additional safety concerns. In absence of available second-line HER2-targeted agents, a large prospective RCT should investigate if continuation of trastuzumab might be an attractive strategy, as this meta-analysis was mostly based on non-randomized studies and a RCT with a small sample size.", "substances": ["Trastuzumab"]}, {"pmid": "29609559", "year": "2018", "title": "Irinotecan-containing doublet treatment versus irinotecan monotherapy as second-line choice for advanced gastric cancer.", "summary": "When compared to irinotecan monotherapy, irinotecan-containing doublet treatment increased progression free survival and was tolerable as a second- line chemotherapy for AGC.", "substances": ["Antineoplastic Agents, Phytogenic", "Irinotecan", "Camptothecin"]}, {"pmid": "29095284", "year": "2017", "title": "Clinicopathological factors associated with HER2-positive gastric cancer: A meta-analysis.", "summary": "HER2-positive expression was associated with male gender, intestinal type, and well/moderate cell differentiation. We recommend that those gastric cancer patients who may benefit from trastuzumab treatment should be subjected to targeted therapies. However, detecting HER2 status may contribute to the target therapy for gastric carcinoma using trastuzumab. This would be strengthened by further studies incorporating comorbidity data, and outcomes from centralized programs.", "substances": ["Antineoplastic Agents", "ERBB2 protein, human", "Receptor, ErbB-2", "Trastuzumab"]}, {"pmid": "28920153", "year": "2018", "title": "Optimizing Somatostatin Analog Use in Well or Moderately Differentiated Gastroenteropancreatic Neuroendocrine Tumors.", "summary": "In this appraisal, we have found some practical aspects that can help to the optimization of somatostatin analog (SSA) therapy in patients with well-differentiated GEP-NETs. We have also identified areas of uncertainty in an effort to guide clinical research in the coming years.", "substances": ["Antineoplastic Agents", "Somatostatin"]}, {"pmid": "28614219", "year": "2017", "title": "Third-line chemotherapy in advanced gastric cancer: A systematic review and meta-analysis.", "summary": "The third-line chemotherapy is superior to the best supportive care in advanced gastric cancer patients who had been pretreated with first-line and second-line chemotherapy.", "substances": ["Antineoplastic Agents"]}, {"pmid": "27802185", "year": "2018", "title": "Approaches and genetic determinants in predicting response to neoadjuvant chemotherapy in locally advanced gastric cancer.", "summary": "Gastric cancer remains a major health burden worldwide. There is near-universal agreement that neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NAC) is a preferred management for locally advanced gastric cancer (LAGC). However, the optimal approach for an individual patient is still not clear and remains controversial, which could be at least partly explained by the lack of predictive tools. The ability to predict chemosensitivity from NAC in routine clinical practice is difficult and is an area of intense investigation, especially in the Precision-Medicine Era. Available consistent evidence suggests that a favorable tumor histopathological response to NAC may be a useful positive prognostic marker in gastric cancer. Hence, it is reasonable to speculate that making the histopathological response from NAC predictable will dramatically facility the NAC and improve patients' outcome. This review provides an overview on the current status of predictive biomarkers for histopathological response from NAC in LAGC, including clinicopathological variables, imaging and molecular testing. Furthermore, limitations and future perspectives are also discussed.", "substances": ["Biomarkers, Tumor", "Circulating Tumor DNA"]}, {"pmid": "28272258", "year": "2017", "title": "The role of antiangiogenic agents in the treatment of gastric cancer: A systematic review and meta-analysis.", "summary": "This study confirms the superior efficacy of combination therapy with antiangiogenic agents in comparison to traditional chemotherapy regimens for patients with GC. Moreover, this new treatment approach showed tolerable toxicity. This meta-analysis provides important information for clinicians who are interested in using antiangiogenic therapies to treat GC patients.", "substances": ["Angiogenesis Inhibitors"]}, {"pmid": "28222158", "year": "2017", "title": "The effect of anti-angiogenic agents on overall survival in metastatic oesophago-gastric cancer: A systematic review and meta-analysis.", "summary": "The addition of AAs to standard therapy in mOGC improves OS. Improved efficacy was only observed in 2nd- or 3rd-line setting and not in 1st-line setting. Consistent OS benefit was present across all geographical regions. This benefit is at the expense of increased overall toxicity.", "substances": ["Angiogenesis Inhibitors", "Antineoplastic Agents"]}, {"pmid": "27756337", "year": "2017", "title": "Efficacy and safety of angiogenesis inhibitors in advanced gastric cancer: a systematic review and meta-analysis.", "summary": "Monoclonal antibodies and small molecule tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) directed against the vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) or its receptors have been investigated in several studies for the treatment of advanced gastric cancer (GC). In the present study, we aimed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of angiogenesis inhibitors in advanced GC. We searched published randomized controlled trials (RCTs) comparing angiogenesis inhibitors with non-angiogenesis inhibitors for the treatment of GC. MEDLINE, EMBASE, and the Cochrane Controlled Trials Register were searched. The extracted data on progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) were measured in terms of hazard ratios (HR) and corresponding 95\u00a0% confidence intervals (CIs). In addition, risk ratios (RR) and corresponding 95 % CIs were pooled for objective response rate (ORR), disease control rate (DCR), and risk of adverse events (AEs). Ten RCTs involving 2786 patients were included. Compared with non-angiogenesis inhibitor-containing regimens, angiogenesis inhibitor-containing regimens resulted in a significant improvement in OS (HR 0.80, 95 % CI 0.69-0.93, P\u2009=\u20090.004), prolonged PFS (HR 0.66, 95 % CI 0.51-0.86, P\u2009=\u20090.002), and superior ORR (RR 1.34, 95 % CI 1.09-1.65, P\u2009=\u20090.005) and DCR (RR 1.37, 95 % CI 1.17-1.61, P\u2009=\u20090.0001). Angiogenesis inhibitors were associated with a greater number of AEs, but most of these were predictable and manageable. However, hand-foot syndrome, diarrhea, and gastrointestinal (GI) perforation were significantly increased in patients treated with angiogenesis inhibitors. In summary, angiogenesis inhibitor-containing regimens were superior to non-angiogenesis inhibitor-containing regimens in terms of OS, PFS, RR, and DCR in patients with advanced GC.", "substances": ["Angiogenesis Inhibitors"]}, {"pmid": "35946519", "year": "2022", "title": "The effect of angiotensin receptor blockers and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors on progression of gastric cancer: systematic review and meta-analysis.", "summary": "Angiotensin receptor blockers (ARB), as well as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEI), are mostly used as therapy for hypertension and cardiovascular disease. However, they can increase the risk of cancer progression including gastric cancer. Here we aimed to analyze the assessment between ARB and ACEI on the progression of gastric cancer. Cochrane Library, PubMed and EMBASE were searched for articles and abstracts describing ARBs, ACEIs, and incidence of gastric cancer. Risk ratio, hazard ratio and 95% confidence interval (CI) were extracted from each outcome by using a random-effects model. Six studies met our inclusion criteria. These results demonstrated that there is a significant association between ARB with gastric cancer progression (risk ratio\u2009=\u20090.63; 95% CI, 0.5-0.7; P \u2009=\u20090.00; I 2 \u2009=\u200927.299; df (Q)\u2009=\u20092; Q-value\u2009=\u20092.75). However, there was not any link between ACEIs and gastric cancer development (risk ratio\u2009=\u20091.1; 95% CI, 0.92-1.31; P \u2009=\u20090.26; I 2 \u2009=\u20090.00; df (Q)\u2009=\u20093; Q-value\u2009=\u20091.26). All these findings indicated that using the ARBs has raised the progression of gastric cancer in these patients.", "substances": ["Angiotensin Receptor Antagonists", "Angiotensin-Converting Enzyme Inhibitors"]}, {"pmid": "35963482", "year": "2022", "title": "Targeting the complexity of ERBB2 biology in gastroesophageal carcinoma.", "summary": "ERBB2 is the most prominent therapeutic target in gastroesophageal adenocarcinoma (GEA). For two decades, trastuzumab was the only treatment available for GEA overexpressing ERBB2. Several drugs showing evidence of efficacy over or in complement to trastuzumab in breast cancer failed to show clinical benefit in GEA. This resistance to anti-ERBB2 therapy is peculiarly recurrent in GEA and is mostly due to tumor heterogeneity with the existence of low expressing ERBB2 tumor clones and loss of ERBB2 over time. The development of new ERBB2 testing strategies and the use of antibody-drug conjugates having a bystander effect are providing new tools to fight heterogeneity in ERBB2-positive GEA. Co-amplifications of tyrosine kinase receptors, alterations in mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) and phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase (PI3K) signaling pathways and in proteins controlling cell cycle are well known to contribute resistance to anti-ERBB2 therapy, and they can be targeted by dual therapy. Recently described, NF1 mutations are responsible for Ras phosphorylation and activation and can also be targeted by MEK/ERK inhibition along with anti-ERBB2 therapy. Multiple lines of evidence suggest that immune mechanisms involving antibody-dependent cell-mediated cytotoxicity are preponderant over intracellular signaling in anti-ERBB2 therapy action. A better comprehension of these mechanisms could leverage immune action of anti-ERBB2 therapy and elucidate efficacy of combinations associating immunotherapy and anti-ERBB2 therapy, as suggested by the recent intermediate positive results of the KEYNOTE-811 trial.", "substances": ["Receptor, ErbB-2", "Trastuzumab", "ERBB2 protein, human"]}, {"pmid": "35857197", "year": "2022", "title": "Changes in the Gustave Roussy Immune Score as a Powerful Prognostic Marker of the Therapeutic Sensitivity of Nivolumab in Advanced Gastric Cancer: A Multicenter, Retrospective Study.", "summary": "GRIm-s after two courses of nivolumab and its changes compared to pretreatment values proved beneficial in predicting nivolumab sensitivity.", "substances": ["Antineoplastic Agents, Immunological", "Biomarkers", "Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors", "Nivolumab"]}, {"pmid": "27417221", "year": "2017", "title": "Second- and third-line systemic therapy in patients with advanced esophagogastric cancer: a systematic review of the literature.", "summary": "The optimal second- and third-line chemotherapy and targeted therapy for patients with advanced esophagogastric cancer is still a matter of debate. Therefore, a literature search was carried out in Medline, EMBASE, CENTRAL, and oncology conferences until January 2016 for randomized controlled trials that compared second- or third-line therapy. We included 28 studies with 4810 patients. Second-line, single-agent taxane/irinotecan showed increased survival compared to best supportive care (BSC) (hazard ratio 0.65, 95\u00a0% confidence interval 0.53-0.79). Median survival gain ranged from 1.4 to 2.7\u00a0months among individual studies. Taxane- and irinotecan-based regimens showed equal survival benefit. Doublet chemotherapy taxane/irinotecan plus platinum and fluoropyrimidine was not different in survival, but showed increased toxicity vs. taxane/irinotecan monotherapy. Compared to BSC, second-line ramucirumab and second- or third-line everolimus and regorafenib showed limited median survival gain ranging from 1.1 to 1.4\u00a0months, and progression-free survival gain, ranging from 0.3 to 1.6\u00a0months. Third- or later-line apatinib showed increased survival benefit over BSC (HR 0.50, 0.32-0.79). Median survival gain ranged from 1.8 to 2.3\u00a0months. Compared to taxane-alone, survival was superior for second-line ramucirumab plus taxane (HR 0.81, 0.68-0.96), and olaparib plus taxane (HR 0.56, 0.35-0.87), with median survival gains of 2.2 and 4.8\u00a0months respectively. Targeted agents, either in monotherapy or combined with chemotherapy showed increased toxicity compared to BSC and chemotherapy-alone. This review indicates that, given the survival benefit in a phase III study setting, ramucirumab plus taxane is the preferred second-line treatment. Taxane or irinotecan monotherapy are alternatives, although the absolute survival benefit was limited. In third-line setting, apatinib monotherapy is preferred. ", "substances": ["Antineoplastic Agents"]}, {"pmid": "36108874", "year": "2022", "title": "Berberine for gastric cancer prevention and treatment: Multi-step actions on the Correa's cascade underlie its therapeutic effects.", "summary": "Gastric carcinoma (GC) is a complex multifactorial disease occurring as sequential events commonly referred to as the Correa's cascade, a stepwise progression from non-active or chronic active gastritis, to gastric precancerous lesions, and finally, adenocarcinoma. Therefore, the identification of novel agents with multi-step actions on the Correa's cascade and those functioning as multiple phenotypic regulators are the future direction for drug discovery. Recently, berberine (BBR) has gained traction owing to its pharmacological properties, including anti-inflammatory, anti-cancer, anti-ulcer, antibacterial, and immunopotentiation activities. In this article, we investigated and summarized the multi-step actions of BBR on Correa's cascade and its underlying regulatory mechanism in gastric carcinogenesis for the first time, along with a discussion on the strength of BBR to prevent and treat GC. BBR was found to suppress H. pylori infection, control mucosal inflammation, and promote ulcer healing. In the gastric precancerous lesion phase, BBR could reverse mucosal atrophy and prevent lesions in intestinal metaplasia and dysplasia by regulating inflammatory cytokines, promoting cell apoptosis, regulating macrophage polarization, and regulating autophagy. Additionally, the therapeutic action of BBR on GC was partly realized through the inhibition of cell proliferation, migration, and angiogenesis; induction of apoptosis and autophagy, and enhancement of chemotherapeutic drug sensitivity. BBR exerted multi-step actions on the Correa's cascade, thereby halting and even reversing gastric carcinogenesis in some cases. Thus, BBR could be used to prevent and treat GC. In conclusion, the therapeutic strategy underlying BBR's multi-step action in the trilogy of Correa's cascade may include \"prevention of gastric mucosal inflammation (Phase 1); reversal of gastric precancerous lesions (Phase 2), and rescue of GC (Phase 3)\". The NF-\u03baB, PI3K/Akt, and MAPK signaling pathways may be the key signaling transduction pathways underlying the treatment of gastric carcinogenesis using BBR. The advantage of BBR over conventional drugs is its multifaceted and long-term effects. This review is expected to provide preclinical evidence for using BBR to prevent gastric carcinogenesis and treat gastric cancer.", "substances": ["Anti-Bacterial Agents", "Cytokines", "NF-kappa B", "Berberine", "Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-akt"]}, {"pmid": "36055806", "year": "2022", "title": "[Immunotherapy in advanced gastric cancer].", "summary": "Metastatic gastroesophageal adenocarcinoma is a disease with a poor prognosis whose survival did not exceed twelve months until recently. Long limited to conventional cytotoxic chemotherapy protocols, the therapeutic arsenal has been expanded in recent years with the advent of new molecules. In this evolving therapeutic landscape, immunotherapy has also been developed in metastatic gastric cancer. After initial therapeutic trials with mixed or even negative results, immunotherapy was able to make a breakthrough with the checkmate 649\u00a0phase III trial demonstrating a significant survival improvement by adding nivolumab to a first-line chemotherapy by XELOX or FOLFOX. The survival benefit provided by nivolumab was greater for patients with tumor CPS\u22655 (or even \u226510), whereas it was almost inexistant for tumor CPS<5 (or even<10). Based on this study, a UE approval was obtained from EMA for tumors with a CPS\u22655. For HER2-positive metastatic gastric cancer, promising results have been obtained by combination of chemotherapy with anti-HER2\u00a0and immunotherapy, and these therapeutic approaches are currently assessed in phase III trials. The variation in the therapeutic response obtained by immunotherapy supposes the existence of molecular subgroups more or less sensitive to these immune checkpoint inhibitors. Some biomarkers have been identified as predictors of response to immunotherapy, such as microsatellite instability, which is probably the most robust of them, but also tumor mutational burden, lymphoplasmacytic infiltration, or EBV tumor positive.", "substances": ["Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors", "Immunologic Factors", "Nivolumab"]}, {"pmid": "36325789", "year": "2022", "title": "[Advances in Treatment of Human Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor 2-Positve Gastric Cancer].", "summary": "Gastric cancer ranks as the fifth most common malignant tumor worldwide and the fourth leading cause of cancer-related deaths.Human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2)-positive gastric cancer is a special type of gastric adenocarcinoma,the prognosis of which can be improved by trastuzumab plus cytotoxic chemotherapy such as cisplatin and fluorouracil.Pembrolizumab on the basis of Tmabplus chemotherapy can further improve the overall response rate,which has become the first-line standardized therapy against HER2-positive gastric cancer.However,there are still some obstacles such as the innate resistance to Tmab in specific populations.The research on HER2-targeted therapy provides clues for clinical decision-making.This review documents the current neoadjuvant and adjuvant therapies against late-stage HER2-positive gastric cancer,as well as the progress in novel HER2 pathway-targeted drugs.", "substances": ["ERBB2 protein, human", "Receptor, ErbB-2", "Trastuzumab"]}, {"pmid": "36305543", "year": "2022", "title": "Disitamab vedotin, a novel HER2-directed antibody-drug conjugate in gastric cancer and other solid tumors.", "summary": "Antibody-drug conjugates (ADC), a combination of cytotoxic drugs and antibodies, have emerged as a rising star in cancer therapy. Disitamab vedotin (RC48), a novel ADC targeting human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2), is currently being explored in a variety of malignancies. Compared with conventional HER2-targeting agents, RC48 is characterized by a wider therapeutic window and less toxicity to normal tissues. In this review, we will analyze the structural elements and mechanisms of RC48. Besides, we provide a landscape on the progression of RC48 in common malignancies, focusing on RC48 in gastric or gastroesophageal junction cancer, and a brief overview of urothelial, breast and other cancers (e.g., gynecological cancer, biliary tract cancer, non-small cell lung cancer and myometrial invasive bladder cancer). Finally, we will also discuss future challenges in the development of RC48 and future directions to improve efficacy.", "substances": ["Antibodies, Monoclonal", "Antineoplastic Agents", "ERBB2 protein, human", "Immunoconjugates", "Receptor, ErbB-2"]}, {"pmid": "36281604", "year": "2022", "title": "[A Case of Neuroendocrine Carcinoma of the Stomach Treated with TAS-102].", "summary": "A 77-year-old-woman underwent distal gastrectomy D2 lymph node dissection and cholecystectomy followed by Roux- en-Y reconstruction for Stage \u2162C gastric neuroendocrine cell carcinoma in January 2017. In July of the same year, an abdominal computed tomography scan revealed liver metastasis in segment 4. For treatment of recurrence, SP therapy(S-1 and cisplatin), ramucirumab plus weekly paclitaxel therapy, and nivolumab were administered in that order. TAS-102 was started as the fourth-line agent for multiple liver metastases, para-aortic lymph node metastases, and cancerous peritonitis. Although Grade 2 anemia, Grade 1 oral mucositis and general fatigue were observed during the treatment, both liver metastases and para-aortic lymph node metastases showed improvement after three courses, and the patient was able to continue 11 courses in 1 year. She died 1 year and 5 months after the first administration of TAS-102. TAS-102 can be effective after immune checkpoint inhibitor as a late treatment for gastric cancer and NEC. The appropriate timing for switching drug therapy may be important in the future. We report a favorable therapeutic effect of TAS-102 after immune checkpoint inhibitor treatment along with a review of the literature.", "substances": ["trifluridine tipiracil drug combination", "Cisplatin", "Nivolumab", "Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors", "Paclitaxel"]}, {"pmid": "26733020", "year": "2017", "title": "Meta-analysis supporting noninferiority of oxaliplatin plus S-1 to cisplatin plus S-1 in first-line treatment of advanced gastric cancer (G-SOX study): indirect comparison with S-1 alone.", "summary": "This meta-analysis indicates that SOX was superior to S-1 and noninferior to CS in AGC.", "substances": ["Drug Combinations", "Organoplatinum Compounds", "Oxaliplatin", "S 1 (combination)", "Tegafur", "Oxonic Acid", "Irinotecan", "Cisplatin", "Camptothecin"]}, {"pmid": "36160649", "year": "2022", "title": "Gastrointestinal tumors in transplantation: Two case reports and review of literature.", "summary": "GISTs represent rare but potentially severe malignant complication among transplant patients.", "substances": ["Antineoplastic Agents", "Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-kit"]}, {"pmid": "36144560", "year": "2022", "title": "Research Progress on the Mechanisms of Polysaccharides against Gastric Cancer.", "summary": "Gastric cancer is a common type of cancer that poses a serious threat to human health. Polysaccharides are important functional phytochemicals, and research shows that polysaccharides have good anti-gastric cancer effects. We collated all relevant literature published from 2000 to 2020 and found that more than 60 natural polysaccharides demonstrate anti-gastric cancer activity. At the present, the sources of these polysaccharides include fungi, algae, tea, <i>Astragalus membranaceus</i>, <i>Caulis Dendrobii</i>, and other foods and Chinese herbal medicines. By regulating various signaling pathways, including the PI3K/AKT, MAPK, Fas/FasL, Wnt/\u03b2-catenin, IGF-IR, and TGF-\u03b2 signaling pathways, polysaccharides induce gastric cancer cell apoptosis, cause cell cycle arrest, and inhibit migration and invasion. In addition, polysaccharides can enhance the immune system and killing activity of immune cells in gastric cancer patients and rats. This comprehensive review covers the extraction, purification, structural characterization, and mechanism of plant and fungal polysaccharides against gastric cancer. We hope this review is helpful for researchers to design, research, and develop plant and fungal polysaccharides.", "substances": ["Fungal Polysaccharides", "Polysaccharides", "Tea", "Transforming Growth Factor beta", "beta Catenin", "Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-akt"]}, {"pmid": "36080453", "year": "2022", "title": "Natural Small Molecules in Gastrointestinal Tract and Associated Cancers: Molecular Insights and Targeted Therapies.", "summary": "Gastric cancer is one of the most common cancers of the gastrointestinal tract. Although surgery is the primary treatment, serious maladies that dissipate to other parts of the body may require chemotherapy. As there is no effective procedure to treat stomach cancer, natural small molecules are a current focus of research interest for the development of better therapeutics. Chemotherapy is usually used as a last resort for people with advanced stomach cancer. Anti-colon cancer chemotherapy has become increasingly effective due to drug resistance and sensitivity across a wide spectrum of drugs. Naturally-occurring substances have been widely acknowledged as an important project for discovering innovative medications, and many therapeutic pharmaceuticals are made from natural small molecules. Although the beneficial effects of natural products are as yet unknown, emerging data suggest that several natural small molecules could suppress the progression of stomach cancer. Therefore, the underlying mechanism of natural small molecules for pathways that are directly involved in the pathogenesis of cancerous diseases is reviewed in this article. Chemotherapy and molecularly-targeted drugs can provide hope to colon cancer patients. New discoveries could help in the fight against cancer, and future stomach cancer therapies will probably include molecularly formulated drugs.", "substances": ["Antineoplastic Agents"]}, {"pmid": "35934154", "year": "2022", "title": "Anti-PD-1 combined with targeted therapy: Theory and practice in gastric and colorectal cancer.", "summary": "Gastric cancer (GC) and colorectal cancer (CRC) are frequent and aggressive malignancies worldwide. Despite the emergence of various therapeutic regimens, the prognosis of gastric and colorectal cancer is relatively poor. Immunotherapy targeting PD-1 is one of the most prevalent approaches, but it has a low response rate in most patients, particularly those with microsatellite stability (MSS). Recently, some targeted drugs have been found to remarkably enhance the anti-tumor immunity of cancer models, mainly through increasing the level of CD8<sup>+</sup> T cells, M1-type macrophages, expression of PD-L1, and decreasing the level of regulatory T cells and M2 macrophages. The above finding implies that the combination of anti-PD-1 and targeted therapies may be a potential treatment for gastric and colorectal cancer patients. Although many encouraging preclinical results have been shown, the clinical outcomes were not approving enough. To further enhance the therapeutic efficacy and improve the prognosis in GC and CRC patients, deeper and larger-scale studies should be done to determine the complicated interactions between the two therapies and the concrete use of combination regimens.", "substances": ["B7-H1 Antigen"]}, {"pmid": "36225938", "year": "2022", "title": "Therapeutic strategies for gastric cancer targeting immune cells: Future directions.", "summary": "Gastric cancer (GC) is a malignancy with a high incidence and mortality, and the emergence of immunotherapy has brought survival benefits to GC patients. Compared with traditional therapy, immunotherapy has the advantages of durable response, long-term survival benefits, and lower toxicity. Therefore, targeted immune cells are the most promising therapeutic strategy in the field of oncology. In this review, we introduce the role and significance of each immune cell in the tumor microenvironment of GC and summarize the current landscape of immunotherapy in GC, which includes immune checkpoint inhibitors, adoptive cell therapy (ACT), dendritic cell (DC) vaccines, reduction of M2 tumor-associated macrophages (M2 TAMs), N2 tumor-associated neutrophils (N2 TANs), myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs), effector regulatory T cells (eT<sub>regs</sub>), and regulatory B cells (B<sub>regs</sub>) in the tumor microenvironment and reprogram TAMs and TANs into tumor killer cells. The most widely used immunotherapy strategies are the immune checkpoint inhibitor programmed cell death 1/programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-1/PD-L1) antibody, cytotoxic T lymphocyte-associated protein 4 (CTLA-4) antibody, and chimeric antigen receptor T (CAR-T) in ACT, and these therapeutic strategies have significant anti-tumor efficacy in solid tumors and hematological tumors. Targeting other immune cells provides a new direction for the immunotherapy of GC despite the relatively weak clinical data, which have been confirmed to restore or enhance anti-tumor immune function in preclinical studies and some treatment strategies have entered the clinical trial stage, and it is expected that more and more effective immune cell-based therapeutic methods will be developed and applied.", "substances": ["B7-H1 Antigen", "CTLA-4 Antigen", "Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors", "Programmed Cell Death 1 Receptor", "Receptors, Chimeric Antigen", "Vaccines"]}, {"pmid": "36135075", "year": "2022", "title": "Third- and Late Line Treatments of Metastatic Gastric Cancer: Still More to Be Done.", "summary": "In recent years, advances of anticancer and supportive therapies have determined a gradual improvement in survival rates and patients' general conditions in metastatic gastric cancer (mGC), allowing them to receive further treatments. The choice of treatment is driven by performance status, age, stage of disease, number of metastatic sites and time from the first to third line of treatment. Targets such as microsatellite instability, PD-L1 expression, and HER2 overexpression or amplification may be addressed to personalise treatment and prolong survival. Despite a growing number of third line options that have provided clinicians with greater opportunities to customise treatments, up to date few agents have been demonstrated as effective after two standard lines for mGC; for these reasons, chemotherapy, immunotherapy, and targeted therapy were all widely investigated in both phase II and phase III studies. Overall, TAS-102, apatinib, regorafenib, nilotinib, trastuzumab, and pembrolizumab were demonstrated to be valid options in the third line scenario for mGC patient refractory to at least two lines of therapy. A multimodal approach based on chemotherapy, immunotherapy, targeted agents, a personalised nutritional programme as well as the research of new predictive biomarkers may pave the way to new strategies to identify the best treatment for each patient.", "substances": ["Antineoplastic Agents", "B7-H1 Antigen", "Trastuzumab"]}, {"pmid": "27432490", "year": "2016", "title": "Molecular-targeted first-line therapy for advanced gastric cancer.", "summary": "There is uncertainty about the effect of adding targeted therapy to chemotherapy on survival outcomes in people with advanced gastric cancer, with very little information on its impact on quality of life. There is more certain evidence of increased risk of adverse events and serious adverse events. The main limitation of the evidence for survival outcomes was inconsistency of effects across the studies, which we could not explain by prespecified subgroups in terms of the type of therapy or tumor type. Ongoing studies in this area are small and unlikely to improve our understanding of the effects of targeted therapy, and larger studies are needed.", "substances": ["Angiogenesis Inhibitors", "ERBB2 protein, human", "ErbB Receptors", "Receptor, ErbB-2"]}, {"pmid": "26754295", "year": "2017", "title": "The efficacy and safety of S-1-based regimens in the first-line treatment of advanced gastric cancer: a systematic review and meta-analysis.", "summary": "S-1 is effective and tolerable as first-line therapy for advanced gastric cancer in both Asian and Western countries.", "substances": ["Drug Combinations", "S 1 (combination)", "Tegafur", "Oxonic Acid"]}, {"pmid": "35986837", "year": "2022", "title": "Cadonilimab: First Approval.", "summary": "Cadonilimab (<sup>\u00ae</sup>), a PD-1/CTLA-4 bi-specific antibody,\u00a0is being developed by Akeso, Inc. for the treatment of a range of solid tumours, including cervical cancer, lung cancer, gastric/gastroesophageal junction cancer, oesophageal squamous cell cancer, liver cancer and nasopharyngeal cancer. Cadonilimab was approved in China in June 2022 for use in patients with relapsed or metastatic cervical cancer (r/mCC) who have progressed on or after platinum-based chemotherapy. This article summarizes the milestones in the development of cadonilimab leading to this first approval for the treatment of patients with r/mCC.", "substances": ["Antibodies, Monoclonal, Humanized", "CTLA-4 Antigen", "Programmed Cell Death 1 Receptor"]}, {"pmid": "35839430", "year": "2022", "title": "Esophagogastric Cancers: Integrating Immunotherapy Therapy Into Current Practice.", "summary": "Immunotherapy (IO) agents have led to significant improvements in patient outcomes across many tumor types. There have been great efforts to introduce immune checkpoint inhibitors into the treatment paradigm of esophagogastric cancers as well. A number of randomized phase III trials, which will be reviewed here, established the role of these agents in both early-stage and advanced-stage disease. Adjuvant nivolumab is US Food and Drug Administration-approved after neoadjuvant chemoradiation and resection of esophageal and gastroesophageal junction cancers on the basis of the phase III CheckMate 577 trial. In the advanced setting, patients with programmed death receptor ligand-1-positive tumors should be recommended IO in combination with chemotherapy in the first-line setting on the basis of the results from KEYNOTE 590, CheckMate 649, and CheckMate 648. Across trials, chemotherapy continues to play a critical role in the first-line setting and should be offered to all patients who are eligible for systemic therapy, including those with biomarker select tumors. In the later lines of treatment, IO has modest activity, and prior studies have grown largely irrelevant because of the enrollment of IO-naive patients. Similar to other disease types, patients with microsatellite unstable (microsatellite instability high) tumors represent a unique cohort that is more sensitive to IO. However, there are no randomized studies evaluating how best to apply IO in early or advanced stages specifically for the treatment of patients with microsatellite instability high upper GI tumors. Questions remain how to best select patients who benefit from IO treatments, how to augment IO activity in programmed death receptor ligand-1-negative tumors, and how to incorporate IO in late-line settings or for recurrent disease that has been treated with IO-containing regimens during early stages.", "substances": ["Ligands", "Receptors, Death Domain"]}, {"pmid": "36050997", "year": "2022", "title": "Clinical Efficacy, Survival, and Adverse Reaction Evaluation of Immune Checkpoint Inhibitor in Advanced Gastric Cancer: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis.", "summary": "ICIs associated with chemotherapy is effective when treating GC, which can effectively promote the disease control rate of patients, enhance immune function, reduce the level of tumor markers, and prolong survival time. The safety is controllable, which is worth popularizing in clinical practice. However, more studies and follow-up with higher methodological quality and longer intervention time are needed to further verify it.", "substances": ["Carcinoembryonic Antigen", "Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors"]}, {"pmid": "36042610", "year": "2022", "title": "Trastuzumab combined chemotherapy for the treatment of HER2-positive advanced gastric cancer: A systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized controlled trial.", "summary": "The results of this study revealed that the efficacy of trastuzumab combined with chemotherapy was superior to that of chemotherapy alone for the treatment of HER2-PAGC. The 2 modalities showed similar safety profiles.", "substances": ["Receptor, ErbB-2", "Trastuzumab"]}, {"pmid": "27083592", "year": "2017", "title": "Epirubicin-based compared with docetaxel-based chemotherapy for advanced gastric carcinoma: A systematic review and meta-analysis.", "summary": "Docetaxel or Epirubicin-based regimens are both approved for the treatment of metastatic gastric cancer. We perform a systemic review with metanalysis to evaluate the efficacy and toxicities of docetaxel-based chemotherapy compared with epirubicin-containing regimens. A metaanalysis of randomized studies in accordance with the preference guidelines for reported items in systematic reviews and meta-analyses is performed in which the databases of PubMed, the Cochrane Library, and the ASCO University Meeting were searched for relevant publications. The primary outcome was efficacy, the secondary toxicities. A total of 553 cases were included in the meta-analysis; 278 received epirubicin-based treatment and 313 received docetaxel. The pooled risk ratio to achieve an objective response and a disease control rate were 1.08 (95% CI 0.85-1.37; P=0.52) and 0.90 (95% CI 0.75-1.08; P=0.27) respectively. EPI arm showed a decrease in the risk of neutropenia, anemia, fatigue, asthenia and diarrhea, paraesthesia; docetaxel arm showed a decrease in the risk of leucopenia, thrombocytopenia, anorexia, nausea, nausea-vomiting, stomatitis and neutropenic fever. The results of our study suggest a similar activity of docetaxel and epirubicin-based chemotherapeutic regimens in metastatic gastric cancer. Other parameters as, comorbidity, concomitant diseases and prior therapies should be taken into account to address the clinician's choice in selecting the best therapeutical approach for any single patient. ", "substances": ["Taxoids", "Docetaxel", "Epirubicin"]}, {"pmid": "35902814", "year": "2022", "title": "Gastric carcinosarcoma with FGFR2 amplification under long-term control with pazopanib: a case report and literature review.", "summary": "We report a case of postoperative recurrence of gastric carcinosarcoma under long-term tumor control with pazopanib. This case suggested that pazopanib may be effective in treating gastric carcinosarcoma.", "substances": ["Indazoles", "Pyrimidines", "Sulfonamides", "pazopanib", "FGFR2 protein, human", "Receptor, Fibroblast Growth Factor, Type 2"]}, {"pmid": "35892986", "year": "2022", "title": "Polyphenol Mechanisms against Gastric Cancer and Their Interactions with Gut Microbiota: A Review.", "summary": "The lack of new drugs and resistance to existing drugs are serious problems in gastric cancer(GC) treatment. The research found polyphenols possess anti-<i>Helicobacter pylori(Hp)</i> and antitumor activities and may be used in the research and development of drugs for cancer prevention and treatment. However, polyphenols are affected by their chemical structures and physical properties, which leads to relatively low bioavailability and bioactivity in vivo. The intestinal flora can improve the absorption, utilization, and biological activity of polyphenols, whereas polyphenol compounds can increase the richness of the intestinal flora, reduce the activity of carcinogenic bacteria, stabilize the proportion of core flora, and maintain homeostasis of the intestinal microenvironment. Our review summarizes the gastrointestinal flora-mediated mechanisms of polyphenol against GC.", "substances": ["Polyphenols"]}, {"pmid": "35843686", "year": "2022", "title": "Management of <i>Helicobacter pylori</i> Infection: A Comparison between Korea and the United States.", "summary": "<i>Helicobacter pylori</i> has been well known to cause gastritis, peptic ulcers, mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue, and gastric cancer. The importance of <i>H. pylori</i> eradication has been emphasized; however, the management of <i>H. pylori</i> infection is difficult in clinical practice. In both Eastern and Western countries, there has been a constant interest in confirming individuals who should be tested and treated for <i>H. pylori</i> infection and developing methods to diagnose <i>H. pylori</i> infection. Many studies have been implemented to successfully eradicate <i>H. pylori</i>, and various combinations of eradication regimens for <i>H. pylori</i> infection have been suggested worldwide. Based on the findings of previous studies, a few countries have published their own guidelines that are appropriate for their country; however, these country-specific guidelines may differ depending on the circumstances in each country. Evidence-based guidelines and clinical practice updates for the treatment of <i>H. pylori</i> infection have been published in Korea and the United States in 2021. This review will summarize the similarities and differences in the management of <i>H. pylori</i> infection in Korea and the United States, focusing on indications, diagnosis, and treatments based on recent guidelines and recommendations in both countries.", "substances": ["Anti-Bacterial Agents"]}, {"pmid": "35689885", "year": "2022", "title": "Resistance mechanisms to HER2-targeted therapy in gastroesophageal adenocarcinoma: A systematic review.", "summary": "Several different mechanisms can contribute to drug resistance to anti-HER2 treatment in GEA, mainly through loss of or mutations in the HER2 receptor and upregulation of alternative receptors such as MET, HER3, and FGFRs. Despite these preclinical results, methods to overcome the proposed resistance mechanisms in the clinical setting are lacking. Therefore, further investigation of therapy resistance in GEA patients treated with HER2 targeted therapy is essential to overcome resistance and improve treatment outcome of these patients.", "substances": ["ERBB2 protein, human", "Receptor, ErbB-2"]}, {"pmid": "27310997", "year": "2017", "title": "Can S-1 replace fluorouracil for advanced gastric cancer? A PRISMA-compliant systematic review and meta-analysis.", "summary": "It remains to be seen whether S-1 can be a replacement for infusional fluorouracil (5-FU) for advanced gastric cancer (AGC). The aim of this study was to compare the efficacy and safety of S-1 with 5-FU in AGC.PubMed and Cochrane Library were searched. Randomized controlled trials and meta-analyses comparing S-1 with 5-FU for AGC were eligible. Meta-analysis was performed using RevMan 5.2.Seven trials involving 2443 patients were included. Compared with 5-FU, S-1 showed no significant prolongation of overall survival (OS) (hazard ratio [HR] = 0.91, 95% confidence interval [CI] [0.83-1.01], P = 0.07) and progression-free survival (HR = 0.89, 95% CI [0.70-1.13], P = 0.35), but longer time to treatment failure (HR = 0.74, 95% CI [0.56-0.97], P = 0.03). The objective response rates were comparable (risk ratio [RR] = 1.36, 95% CI [0.95, 1.96], P = 0.10). Regarding treatment-related deaths and hematological toxicities, there was significant heterogeneity between Asian and non-Asian trials, and subgroup analysis was applied. In Asian patients, there was a significant increase in hematological toxicities such as leukopenia (grade 1-4: RR = 1.22, 95% CI [1.08, 1.37], P = 0.001; grade 3-4: RR = 2.21, 95% CI [1.52, 3.21], P\u200a<\u200a0.0001), neutropenia (grade 1-4: RR = 1.29, 95% CI [1.11, 1.48], P = 0.0005; grade 3-4: RR = 1.87, 95% CI [1.11, 3.17], P = 0.02), and thrombocytopenia (grade 1-4: RR = 1.71, 95% CI [1.22, 2.41], P = 0.002) in S-1-containing regimens compared with 5-FU-containing regimens, but without significant difference in treatment-related mortality rate (risk difference [RD] = 0.00, 95% CI [-0.01, 0.01], P = 0.68). In non-Asian patients, S-1-containing regimens were, however, associated with significantly fewer treatment-related deaths (RD = -0.02, 95% CI [-0.05, -0.00], P = 0.04), as well as less all grade 1-4 and grade 3-4 hematological toxicities except anemia. There was no significant heterogeneity in nonhematologic toxicities between Asian and non-Asian trials. Lower incidence of grade 1-4 nausea, diarrhea, mucositis, grade 3-4 mucositis, increased creatinine, and decreased calculated creatinine clearance was observed in S-1-containing regimens.S-1 could not improve OS, but increase some hematological toxicities in Asian patients. Therefore, special attention on hematological toxicities should be paid to Asian patients because S-1 is administered on an outpatient basis. ", "substances": ["Antimetabolites, Antineoplastic", "Drug Combinations", "S 1 (combination)", "Tegafur", "Oxonic Acid", "Fluorouracil"]}, {"pmid": "35956843", "year": "2022", "title": "HIF in Gastric Cancer: Regulation and Therapeutic Target.", "summary": "HIF means hypoxia-inducible factor gene family, and it could regulate various biological processes, including tumor development. In 2021, the FDA approved the new drug Welireg for targeting HIF-2a, and it is mainly used to treat von Hippel-Lindau syndrome, which demonstrated its good prospects in tumor therapy. As the fourth deadliest cancer worldwide, gastric cancer endangers the health of people all across the world. Currently, there are various treatment methods for patients with gastric cancer, but the five-year survival rate of patients with advanced gastric cancer is still not high. Therefore, here we reviewed the regulatory role and target role of HIF in gastric cancer, and provided some references for the treatment of gastric cancer.", "substances": ["Hypoxia-Inducible Factor 1, alpha Subunit", "Transcription Factors"]}, {"pmid": "35821160", "year": "2022", "title": "Emerging roles of circular RNAs in gastric cancer metastasis and drug resistance.", "summary": "Gastric cancer (GC) is an aggressive malignancy with a high mortality rate and poor prognosis, primarily caused by metastatic lesions. Improved understanding of GC metastasis at the molecular level yields meaningful insights into potential biomarkers and therapeutic targets. Covalently closed circular RNAs (circRNAs) have emerged as crucial regulators in diverse human cancers including GC. Furthermore, accumulating evidence has demonstrated that circRNAs exhibit the dysregulated patterns in GC and have emerged as crucial regulators in GC invasion and metastasis. However, systematic knowledge regarding the involvement of circRNAs in metastatic GC remains obscure. In this review, we outline the functional circRNAs related to GC metastasis and drug resistance and discuss their underlying mechanisms, providing a comprehensive delineation of circRNA functions on metastatic GC and shedding new light on future therapeutic interventions for GC metastases.", "substances": ["Biomarkers, Tumor", "RNA, Circular"]}, {"pmid": "35703103", "year": "2022", "title": "The clinical position of ramucirumab-containing regimens for advanced gastric cancer: a review of clinical trial data.", "summary": "Despite the availability of multiple treatment options, the prognosis for advanced gastric cancer (AGC) remains poor and more effective treatment options are needed. Ramucirumab is an established and recommended second-line treatment for AGC. In recently completed and ongoing clinical trials, ramucirumab has been investigated in combination with new therapeutics and in new clinical settings to address the unmet treatment needs of AGC. In this review, the findings of recent clinical trials are discussed. The aims of this review are to present the current picture of ramucirumab-containing regimens in AGC and offer practical guidance on the clinical position and target populations of ramucirumab-containing regimens in light of emerging therapeutic developments.", "substances": ["Antibodies, Monoclonal, Humanized", "ramucirumab", "Paclitaxel"]}, {"pmid": "35384619", "year": "2022", "title": "Immunotherapy in Gastro-Oesophageal Cancer: Current Practice and the Future of Personalised Therapy.", "summary": "Initial studies of immune checkpoint inhibitors in biomarker unselected gastro-oesophageal cancer yielded limited improvement in survival. However, emerging data from recent clinical trials suggest immunotherapies may offer a meaningful clinical benefit within selected populations. Gastro-oesophageal cancer is a heterogeneous disease with respect to histopathological and molecular features; hypermutation and the biology of immune checkpoint pathways are key to appropriate selection of populations most likely to benefit from immune checkpoint inhibitors. Programmed death-ligand 1 expression, typically measured using the combined positive score, is an important biomarker in determining which patients may benefit from immunotherapy agents. However, combined positive score thresholds are not standardised across trials and the benefit in programmed death-ligand 1-negative cohorts is uncertain. Data suggest that patients with tumours with microsatellite instability, high tumour mutational burden and Epstein-Barr Virus positivity are more likely to benefit from immunotherapy, which may be of importance within programmed death-ligand 1-negative populations. Here, we describe the current evidence base for the use of checkpoint inhibitors in the treatment of advanced gastro-oesophageal cancer and adjuvant treatment of high-risk oesophageal cancer, as well as the ongoing studies of immunotherapy in the treatment of patients with gastro-oesophageal cancers across an increasing range of clinical settings.", "substances": ["Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors", "Immunologic Factors"]}, {"pmid": "27012156", "year": "2017", "title": "High/positive expression of 5-fluorouracil metabolic enzymes predicts better response to S-1 in patients with gastric cancer: a meta-analysis.", "summary": "OPRT and DPD expression can be treated as a potential predictive biomarker for S-1 response in gastric cancer patients. Further investigation is warranted.", "substances": ["Biomarkers, Tumor", "Drug Combinations", "S 1 (combination)", "Tegafur", "Oxonic Acid", "Thymidylate Synthase", "Orotate Phosphoribosyltransferase", "Thymidine Phosphorylase", "Fluorouracil"]}, {"pmid": "35844616", "year": "2022", "title": "Apatinib: A Novel Antiangiogenic Drug in Monotherapy or Combination Immunotherapy for Digestive System Malignancies.", "summary": "Digestive system malignancies are one of the primary causes of cancer-related death. Meanwhile, angiogenesis has been proved to play an important role in the process of cancer neovascularization. Apatinib, a novel targeted antiangiogenic molecule, could generate highly selective competition in the vascular endothelial growth factor receptor-2, involved in tumor progression and metastasis. It has been implied as a promising cancer treatment agent that can prevent tumor cell proliferation meanwhile inhibit tumor angiogenesis. Furthermore, completed clinical trials demonstrated that apatinib could prolong the progression-free survival and overall survival in advanced gastric cancer and primary liver cancer. Recent studies revealed that apatinib had a synergistic effect with immunotherapy as a second-line and third-line treatment regimen for some other cancers. In this review, we summarize the pharmacological properties of apatinib and the latest clinical application in chemotherapy-refractory patients with advanced digestive system cancer. Based on the comparable survival results, the molecular mechanisms of apatinib are prospective to include the antiangiogenic, apoptosis-inducing, and autophagy-inducing properties in the corresponding signaling pathway. Treatment of apatinib monotherapy or combination immunotherapy remains the optimal option for patients with digestive system malignancies in the future.", "substances": ["Angiogenesis Inhibitors", "Pyridines", "Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor A", "apatinib"]}, {"pmid": "35091998", "year": "2022", "title": "Current status and future perspectives in HER2 positive advanced gastric cancer.", "summary": "Gastric cancer is one of the most common malignancy worldwide with a prognosis less than 1 year in unresectable or metastatic disease. HER2 expression is the main biomarker to lead the addition of trastuzumab to first line systemic chemotherapy improving the overall survival in advanced HER2-positivegastric adenocarcinoma. The inevitable development of resistance to trastuzumab remains a great problem inasmuch several treatment strategies that have proven effective in breast cancer failed to show clinical benefit in advanced gastric cancer. In this review, we summarize the available data on the mechanisms underlying primary and secondary resistance toHER2-targeted therapy and current challenges in the treatment of HER2-positive advanced gastric cancer refractory to trastuzumab. Further, we describe the prognostic value of new non-invasive screening techniques, the current development of novel agents such us HER2 antibody-drug conjugates and bispecific antibodies, and the strategies with antitumor activity on going.", "substances": ["Immunoconjugates", "Receptor, ErbB-2", "Trastuzumab"]}, {"pmid": "35536757", "year": "2022", "title": "Design and Synthesis of Novel Celastrol Derivatives as Potential Anticancer Agents against Gastric Cancer Cells.", "summary": "Gastric cancer (GC) is a common malignant disease worldwide, and finding novel agents and strategies for the treatment of GC are of urgent need. Celastrol (CEL) is a well-known natural product with antineoplastic activity. In this study, pyrazole analogues were introduced at the C-29 position of CEL. A total of 24 new derivatives were designed, synthesized, and evaluated for their mechanism and antitumor activity in vitro and in vivo. Among them, compound <b>21</b> exhibited the best activity against BGC-823 cells (IC<sub>50</sub> = 0.21 \u00b1 0.01 \u03bcM). Further biological studies showed that <b>21</b> significantly raised the reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels to activate the apoptotic pathway, causing mitochondrial dysfunction in BGC-823 cells. In addition, <b>21</b> also arrested cells in the G2/M phase to induce tumor cell apoptosis. In a nude mouse tumor xenograft model, <b>21</b> exhibited a better tumor inhibition rate (89.85%) than CEL (inhibition rate 76.52%). Taken together, the present study has provided an anticancer lead compound candidate, <b>21</b>, and has revealed that increased ROS generation may be an effective strategy in the treatment of GC.", "substances": ["Antineoplastic Agents", "Imidazoles", "Pentacyclic Triterpenes", "Reactive Oxygen Species", "Sulfonamides", "Thiophenes", "celastrol", "compound 21"]}, {"pmid": "35469998", "year": "2022", "title": "Curcumin: A therapeutic strategy for targeting the Helicobacter pylori-related diseases.", "summary": "Helicobacter pylori is a significant human pathogen of the stomach's epithelial lining. This type of carcinogen is associated with gastric cancer, indigestion, peptic ulcers, and upper digestive diseases. Therefore, successful treatment and eradication of this bacterium are required to reduce the prevalence of these diseases, especially in high-risk individuals. Moreover, some concerns exist regarding the extensive use of elimination therapy, such as anti-microbial resistance and rising H. pylori-associated diseases. Since there is still no effective vaccine, finding alternative therapies would appear to be a worthwhile pursuit. In this regard, curcumin exhibits anti-inflammatory, anti-carcinogenic, anti-oxidant properties and is widely used as a natural product-derived medicine or nutraceutical. Furthermore, curcumin has been reported to have anti-bacterial activity. Therefore, curcumin might be an effective herbal-based medicine for preventing, managing, or treating H. pylori infection. This review discusses the anti-inflammatory, anti-cancer, and anti-bacterial properties of curcumin as it pertains to gastric cancer and H. pylori-associated diseases.", "substances": ["Anti-Bacterial Agents", "Anti-Inflammatory Agents", "Curcumin"]}, {"pmid": "35623069", "year": "2022", "title": "The current management and biomarkers of immunotherapy in advanced gastric cancer.", "summary": "ICIs have shown encouraging treatment efficacy and manageable safety profile in GC. Some biomarkers including PD-L1, MSI-H, EBV, and TMB status could evaluate the efficacy of ICIs in GC.", "substances": ["B7-H1 Antigen", "Biomarkers, Tumor", "Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors", "Immunologic Factors", "Programmed Cell Death 1 Receptor", "Nivolumab"]}, {"pmid": "35322705", "year": "2022", "title": "Targeting IL-1\u03b2 in patients with advanced <i>Helicobacter pylori</i> infection: a potential therapy for gastric cancer.", "summary": "<i>Helicobacter pylori</i> (<i>H. pylori</i>) infection is a causal factor of gastric cancer. Among the cytokines secreted during this infection, IL-1\u03b2\u00a0is highly associated with promotion and progression of gastric cancer. On the therapeutic front, eradication of <i>H. pylori</i> was thought to be efficient to restore gastric homeostasis. However, successful <i>H. pylori</i> eradication in patients with advanced stages (intestinal metaplasia) failed to diminish inflammation that is due to heightened Th17\u00a0response and elevated IL-1\u03b2 levels. In fact, association between these two components was established, suggesting that IL-1\u03b2 is a critical target in these cases. In this review, we will discuss the functional relevance of IL-1\u03b2 in advanced <i>H. pylori</i> infection and how its targeting may bring clinical benefit.", "substances": ["Cytokines", "IL1B protein, human", "Interleukin-1beta"]}, {"pmid": "35081748", "year": "2022", "title": "Trifluridine/tipiracil in the treatment of gastric cancer.", "summary": "Trifluridine/tipiracil is a compound drug, approved in 2015 by the US FDA, and in 2016 by the EMA, for the\u00a0treatment of chemorefractory metastatic colorectal cancers, after the phase III RECOURSE trial demonstrated significant benefit. Another phase III trial (TAGS) showed significant improvement of overall survival and progression-free survival in refractory gastric cancer and gastroesophageal junction cancer, leading to further approval from the FDA on February 2019, followed by Japan in August 2019 and the EU in September 2019. As promising results have already been observed in the chemorefractory gastric and gastroesophageal-junction cancers, ongoing trials are assessing the use of trifluridine/tipiracil with other standard of care agents, aiming to further improve the\u00a0survival rate\u00a0of\u00a0these patients.", "substances": ["Drug Combinations", "Pyrrolidines", "tipiracil", "Thymine", "Trifluridine"]}, {"pmid": "34796971", "year": "2022", "title": "Efficacy and safety of targeted drugs in advanced or metastatic gastric and gastroesophageal junction cancer: A network meta-analysis.", "summary": "Regorafenib and nivolumab have higher efficacy and tolerability and are the most advantageous for advanced GC and GEJC. Moreover, apatinib has higher efficacy but lower tolerability. Everolimus and pertuzumab combined with chemotherapy have best secondary higher efficacy for progression-free survival and good tolerability. Lapatinib and olaparib combined with chemotherapy have moderate efficacy for overall survival and good tolerability.", "substances": ["Lapatinib", "Nivolumab", "Everolimus"]}, {"pmid": "35191714", "year": "2022", "title": "Synthesis of 8-Fluoroneocryptolepine and Evaluation for Cytotoxic Activity against AGS Cancer Cells.", "summary": "Neocryptolepine derivatives have attracted great interest because of their unique cytotoxic activity. 8-Fluoroneocryptolepine (8FNC) was synthesized, and its cytotoxicity was evaluated by MTT assay in AGS gastric cancer cells and gastric mucosa GES-1 cells. 8-Fluoroneocryptolepine showed greater selectivity and cytotoxicity to AGS cells than the cisplatin (CIS) and fluorouracil (5-Fu) commonly used in clinical treatment of gastric cancer. Most importantly, we significantly improved the cytotoxic effect of 8FNC against AGS cells by structural modification and reduced the cytotoxicity against GES-1 cells compared with neocryptolepine. We further evaluated the activity of 8FNC against AGS cells <i>in vitro</i>. Our results indicate that 8FNC arrests the AGS cell cycle in the G2/M phase, reduces the mitochondrial membrane potential of AGS cells, and drives the initiation of apoptotic body formation in 8FNC-induced apoptosis. Moreover, 8FNC exhibits strong inhibitory effects on AGS cell migration. Studies on the molecular mechanisms of the cytotoxic activities of 8FNC revealed that it may play a significant role in the inhibitory effect on AGS human gastric cancer cells through the PI3K/AKT signaling pathway. In conclusion, 8FNC may become a promising lead compound in the development of potential clinical drug candidates for the treatment of gastric cancer.", "substances": ["Antineoplastic Agents", "Fluorouracil"]}, {"pmid": "34820809", "year": "2022", "title": "[Gastric MALT lymphoma - from pathogenetic insights to consequent deescalation of therapy].", "summary": "Gastric MALT- (mucosa-associated-lymphoid-tissue) lymphoma represents the most frequent gastrointestinal lymphoma. For decades, surgery and later on radiation and chemotherapy were regarded as established therapy. Some 30 years ago, the pathogenetic role of Helicobacter pylori infection for the development of gastric MALT-lymphoma became evident. During the following years, the pathogenetic insights were consequently implemented into clinical medicine. This lead to a radical change of the therapeutic approach to these lymphoma. Nowadays, Helicobacter pylori eradication is the internationally established therapy of first choice. It is followed by lymphoma regression in most cases. The long-term prognosis of patients after exclusive eradication therapy is excellent, even if endoscopic and/or histological residuals persist and a watch-and-wait strategy is favored.The pathogenetic insights und their clinical application implicated a consequent deescalation of therapy of gastric MALT-lymphoma. This review summarizes the single steps of this development and gives a recommendation for the actual management of patients with gastric MALT lymphoma.", "substances": ["Anti-Bacterial Agents"]}], "Hemangioblastoma": [{"pmid": "26497655", "year": "2016", "title": "Recurrent multiple CNS hemangioblastomas with VHL disease treated with pazopanib: a case report and literature review.", "summary": "Hemangioblastoma is a rare benign neoplasm, accounting for less than 2% of all primitive brain tumors. It may arise sporadically in a solitary form, or associated with Von Hippel-Lindau (VHL) disease with multiple tumors. Surgery is the mainstay treatment, but management is challenging in case of recurrent and/or multiple tumors. VHL protein is defective in both forms of hemangioblastoma, leading to the accumulation of hypoxia-inducible factor, stimulating angiogenesis via VEGF and PDGF mainly. Here, we report a 37-year-old woman's case with recurrent and rapidly progressive VHL-associated hemangioblastomas, causing severe disability. She was treated 24 months with pazopanib, a multityrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) targeting VEGF and PDGF-\u03b2 pathways. Despite moderate radiological changes, progressive improvement in her clinical condition persisting over 3 years was observed. Inhibiting angiogenesis is a therapeutic option that may improve the quality of life and the autonomy of VHL patients disabled with multiple hemangioblastomas. ", "substances": ["Angiogenesis Inhibitors", "Indazoles", "Pyrimidines", "Sulfonamides", "pazopanib"]}, {"pmid": "23148943", "year": "2013", "title": "Mechanisms, indications and results of salvage systemic therapy for sporadic and von Hippel-Lindau related hemangioblastomas of the central nervous system.", "summary": "Hemangioblastomas (HBs) are rare indolent vascular tumors that may occur sporadically or in association with von Hippel-Lindau (VHL) disease. Total neurosurgical resection is the standard upfront approach providing long-term tumor control. At time of tumor recurrence, second surgery, radiosurgery or radiotherapy are the main therapeutic strategies. Limited information is available on the role of pharmacological strategies. Anti-angiogenic agents, particularly multitarget tyrosine kinase inhibitors (semaxanib, sunitinib, vatalanib), thalidomide and interferon alfa-2a are currently the most widely studied strategies to prolonge disease stability. Salvage therapy with anti-angiogenetic drugs may be of benefit in some patients who are not suitable for surgery, radiosurgery or radiotherapy, with progressive or recurrent hemangioblastoma especially those located in retina, since anti-angiogenetic therapy may delay tumor progression. This strategy warrants prospective evaluation in a clinical trial.", "substances": ["Antineoplastic Agents"]}], "Carcinoma, Hepatocellular": [{"pmid": "36126410", "year": "2022", "title": "Benefits of combination therapy with immune checkpoint inhibitors and predictive role of tumour mutation burden in hepatocellular carcinoma: A systematic review and meta-analysis.", "summary": "Immune checkpoint inhibitors' combination therapy improved clinical outcomes in the management of advanced hepatocellular carcinoma. However, the overall objective response rate still did not exceed 30%. PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors plus anti-angiogenic agents and dual immunotherapy provided significantly increased survival over sorafenib, which also pose new challenges for future research, and more appropriate and guided control regimens are required. Also, TMB may be a promising prognostic biomarker for immunotherapy in HCC. However, the validation of prospective and large sample studies is needed.", "substances": ["B7-H1 Antigen", "Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors", "Antineoplastic Agents, Immunological", "Sorafenib", "Biomarkers, Tumor"]}, {"pmid": "34530205", "year": "2022", "title": "Potential predictors for survival in hepatocellular carcinoma patients treated with immune checkpoint inhibitors: A meta-analysis.", "summary": "These results suggest that PFS could be potential surrogates for OS, especially PFS for patients who treated with ICI combination regimen.", "substances": ["Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors"]}, {"pmid": "34112190", "year": "2021", "title": "A meta-analysis of the efficacy and safety of adjuvant sorafenib for hepatocellular carcinoma after resection.", "summary": "This meta-analysis demonstrated that adjuvant sorafenib therapy after resection in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma could prolong overall survival and recurrence-free survival and reduce recurrence rates without intolerable side effects. However, more evidence is needed before reaching a definitive conclusion.", "substances": ["Antineoplastic Agents", "Phenylurea Compounds", "Niacinamide", "Sorafenib"]}, {"pmid": "31611486", "year": "2020", "title": "The clinical safety and efficacy of conventional transcatheter arterial chemoembolization and drug-eluting beads-transcatheter arterial chemoembolization for unresectable hepatocellular carcinoma: A meta-analysis.", "summary": "Transcatheter arterial chemoembolization (TACE) plays an important role in the treatment of unresectable liver cancer. We conducted this meta-analysis to compare the clinical safety and efficacy of conventional TACE (C-TACE) and drug-eluting beads (DEB)-TACE. A search for those procedures was performed using the PubMed, EMBASE, and Cochrane Library databases. A meta-analysis of patients who underwent C-TACE or DEB-TACE was conducted. Odds ratios (ORs) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs) were calculated. Of 334 studies, 30 were analyzed. The complete response rate, disease control rate, objective response rate, 3-year survival rate, and non-response rate were significantly higher in patients who underwent DEB-TACE than those in patients who underwent C-TACE. The 1-year survival rate, 2-year survival rate, 30-day mortality rate, complete response rate, disease control rate, complete necrosis rate, non-response rate, objective response rate, progressive disease rate, and recurrence did not differ significantly between patients who underwent C-TACE and patients who underwent DEB-TACE. Patients who undergo DEB-TACE might have a higher complete response rate, disease control rate, and 3-year survival rate than patients who undergo C-TACE. Safety did not differ significantly between C-TACE and DEB-TACE.", "substances": ["Drug Carriers"]}, {"pmid": "28847184", "year": "2018", "title": "Hand-foot skin reaction is a beneficial indicator of sorafenib therapy for patients with hepatocellular carcinoma: a systemic review and meta-analysis.", "summary": "The results indicate that HFSR is a beneficial indicator for HCC patients receiving sorafenib therapy. However, molecular mechanisms accounting for sorafenib-induced HFSR in HCC patients remain.", "substances": ["Antineoplastic Agents", "Phenylurea Compounds", "Niacinamide", "Sorafenib"]}, {"pmid": "28177886", "year": "2018", "title": "Transarterial chemoembolization (TACE) combined with sorafenib versus TACE for hepatocellular carcinoma with portal vein tumor thrombus: a systematic review and meta-analysis.", "summary": "TACE-S may improve OS, ORR, TTP and DCR for HCC patients with PVTT compared to TACE.", "substances": ["Phenylurea Compounds", "Niacinamide", "Sorafenib"]}, {"pmid": "27882800", "year": "2017", "title": "Development of sorafenib-related side effects in patients diagnosed with advanced hepatocellular carcinoma treated with sorafenib: a systematic-review and meta-analysis of the impact on survival.", "summary": "\u200bIntroduction: Clinical markers to predict the benefit from sorafenib in patients diagnosed with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) are lacking. A meta-analysis exploring the impact of development of sorafenib-related side effects on survival was conducted. Areas covered: Eligible studies included all clinical studies reporting on the survival/toxicity relationship in sorafenib-treated HCC patients. Data sources included Pub-Med, the Cochrane Controlled Trials Register, and Google scholar. After exclusion of ineligible studies, 16 studies were included in the analysis. Pooled hazard ratio (HR) for overall survival (OS) for patients developing diarrhoea vs. patients who did not was 0.42 (95% confidence interval (CI): 0.30-0.60; p\u00a0<\u00a00.00001); pooled HR for patients developing hypertension vs. those who did not was 0.46 (95% CI: 0.30-0.70; p\u00a0=\u00a00.0003); pooled HR for patients developing hand foot skin reaction vs. those who did not was 0.47 (95% CI: 0.35-0.62; p\u00a0<\u00a00.00001); pooled HR for OS for all types of skin toxicities was 0.51 (95% CI: 0.36-0.72; p\u00a0=\u00a00.0002); while pooled HR for OS for a combination of selected side effects (hypertension, HFS and diarrhoea) was 0.38 (95% CI: 0.30-0.48; p\u00a0<\u00a00.00001). No information was available regarding the impact of thyroid dysfunction or proteinuria. Expert commentary: This analysis of data demonstrated that the occurrence of sorafenib-related side effects (such as diarrhoea, hypertension and skin toxicities) is associated with a better OS in sorafenib-treated HCC patients.", "substances": ["Antineoplastic Agents", "Phenylurea Compounds", "Protein Kinase Inhibitors", "Niacinamide", "Sorafenib"]}, {"pmid": "28396612", "year": "2017", "title": "Efficacy of Nucleot(s)ide Analogs Therapy in Patients with Unresectable HBV-Related Hepatocellular Carcinoma: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis.", "summary": "<i>Aim</i>. To determine whether nucleot(s)ide analogs therapy has survival benefit for patients with HBV-related HCC after unresectable treatment. <i>Method</i>. A systematic search was conducted through seven electronic databases including PubMed, OVID, EMBASE, Cochrane Databases, Elsevier, Wiley Online Library, and BMJ Best Practice. All studies comparing NA combined with unresectable treatment versus unresectable treatment alone were considered for inclusion. The primary outcome was the overall survival (OS) after unresectable treatment for patients with HBV-related HCC. The secondary outcome was the progression-free survival (PFS). Results were expressed as hazard ratio (HR) for survival with 95% confidence intervals. <i>Results</i>. We included six studies with 994 patients: 409 patients in nucleot(s)ide analogs therapy group and 585 patients without antiviral therapy in control group. There were significant improvements for the overall survival (HR = 0.57; 95% CI = 0.47-0.70; <i>p</i> < 0.001) and progression-free survival (HR = 0.84; 95% CI = 0.71-0.99; <i>p</i> = 0.034) in the NA-treated group compared with the control group. Funnel plot showed that there was no significant publication bias in these studies. When it comes to antiviral drugs and operation method, it also showed benefit in NA-treated group. At the same time, overall mortality as well as mortality secondary to liver failure in NA-treated group was obviously lesser. Sensitivity analyses confirmed the robustness of the results. <i>Conclusions</i>. Nucleot(s)ide analogs therapy after unresectable treatment has potential beneficial effects in terms of overall survival and progression-free survival. NA therapy should be considered in clinical practice.", "substances": ["Antiviral Agents", "Organophosphonates", "Telbivudine", "Lamivudine", "Arabinofuranosyluracil", "entecavir", "Guanine", "adefovir", "Tenofovir", "clevudine", "Adenine", "Thymidine"]}, {"pmid": "27930578", "year": "2017", "title": "Short-term and long-term efficacy of 7 targeted therapies for the treatment of advanced hepatocellular carcinoma: a network meta-analysis: Efficacy of 7 targeted therapies for AHCC.", "summary": "This network meta-analysis shows that ramucirumab and sorafenib+erlotinib may be the better targeted drugs for AHCC patients, and sorafenib+erlotinib achieved a better long-term efficacy.", "substances": ["Antibodies, Monoclonal", "Antibodies, Monoclonal, Humanized", "Phenylurea Compounds", "Niacinamide", "Sorafenib", "ramucirumab", "Erlotinib Hydrochloride"]}, {"pmid": "27329398", "year": "2017", "title": "Radiofrequency ablation with or without ethanol injection for hepatocellular carcinoma: a systematic review and meta-analysis.", "summary": "RFA plus EI was superior than RFA alone for treating HCC.", "substances": ["Ethanol"]}, {"pmid": "36343054", "year": "2022", "title": "Efficacy and safety of immune checkpoint inhibitors combined anti-angiogenic therapy in patients with unresectable hepatocellular carcinoma: A meta-analysis.", "summary": "The analysis results reveal that ICI-combined anti-angiogenesis therapy has higher efficacy than either ICIs or anti-angiogenesis options for unresectable HCC, but it is necessary to manage the AEs.", "substances": ["Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors"]}, {"pmid": "36111952", "year": "2022", "title": "Atezolizumab plus bevacizumab versus nivolumab as first-line treatment for advanced or unresectable hepatocellular carcinoma: A cost-effectiveness analysis.", "summary": "At a WTP threshold of $150,000 per QALY and under current drug pricing, atezo-beva is likely considered cost-effective as a first-line treatment for advanced or unresectable hepatocellular carcinoma compared with nivolumab.", "substances": ["atezolizumab", "Bevacizumab", "Nivolumab"]}, {"pmid": "35342969", "year": "2022", "title": "Circulating HBV RNA: From biology to clinical applications.", "summary": "Chronic HBV infection can hardly be cured due to the persistence of an intrahepatic pool of viral covalently closed circular DNA (cccDNA) transcription template, which is refractory to current antivirals. The direct analyses of cccDNA quantity and transcriptional activity require an invasive biopsy. Recently, circulating HBV RNA has been identified as a promising noninvasive surrogate marker of cccDNA and can be used for monitoring disease progression and predicting prognosis of patients with chronic HBV infection. To better understand this surrogate biomarker of cccDNA, we reviewed the current knowledge about the molecular characteristics and potential clinical applications of circulating HBV RNA. Specifically, we summarized the reported species and existing forms of circulating HBV RNA and discussed their biogenesis and the capacity of de novo infection by RNA virions. Moreover, we described the potential applications of circulating HBV RNA in different clinical scenarios, such as classifying the phases of chronic HBV infection, analyzing sustained on-treatment and off-treatment outcomes of treated patients, as well as predicting HCC development. Perspectives on future research of circulating HBV RNA were also proposed in this review.", "substances": ["DNA, Viral", "Cell-Free Nucleic Acids", "DNA, Circular", "Antiviral Agents", "RNA", "Biomarkers"]}, {"pmid": "27749557", "year": "2017", "title": "Efficacy and safety of the oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy in the treatment of advanced primary hepatocellular carcinoma: A meta-analysis of prospective studies.", "summary": "Oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy appears to be effective and safe for the treatment of advanced hepatocellular carcinoma.", "substances": ["Organoplatinum Compounds", "Oxaliplatin"]}, {"pmid": "36271374", "year": "2022", "title": "Efficacy and safety of combined targeted therapy and immunotherapy versus targeted monotherapy in unresectable hepatocellular carcinoma: a systematic review and meta-analysis.", "summary": "For unresectable HCC, combined targeted drug and immunotherapy significantly improved survival compared with targeted monotherapy. However, the incidences of AEs of combinational therapy were higher than targeted monotherapy.", "substances": ["Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors", "Immunologic Factors", "Cytotoxins"]}, {"pmid": "36084663", "year": "2022", "title": "Hepatocellular carcinoma.", "summary": "Hepatocellular carcinoma is one of the most common cancers worldwide and represents a major global health-care challenge. Although viral hepatitis and alcohol remain important risk factors, non-alcoholic fatty liver disease is rapidly becoming a dominant cause of hepatocellular carcinoma. A broad range of treatment options are available for patients with hepatocellular carcinoma, including liver transplantation, surgical resection, percutaneous ablation, and radiation, as well as transarterial and systemic therapies. As such, clinical decision making requires a multidisciplinary team that longitudinally adapts the individual treatment strategy according to the patient's tumour stage, liver function, and performance status. With the approval of new first-line agents and second-line agents, as well as the establishment of immune checkpoint inhibitor-based therapies as standard of care, the treatment landscape of advanced hepatocellular carcinoma is more diversified than ever. Consequently, the outlook for patients with hepatocellular carcinoma has improved. However, the optimal sequencing of drugs remains to be defined, and predictive biomarkers are urgently needed to inform treatment selection. In this Seminar, we present an update on the causes, diagnosis, molecular classification, and treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma.", "substances": ["Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors"]}, {"pmid": "35977874", "year": "2022", "title": "Strategies for improving the efficacy of immunotherapy in hepatocellular carcinoma.", "summary": "Primary liver cancer, mainly hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), is the sixth most diagnosed cancer and third leading cause of cancer-related death globally. Recently, immunotherapies such as immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) have made great progress in the systemic treatment of HCC. However, anti-PD-1 therapy with pembrolizumab or nivolumab as a single agent did not meet their predefined end points of overall survival in the KEYNOTE-240 and CheckMate 459 trials. It is urgent to understand the immunological rationale and explore novel ways to improve the efficacy of immunotherapy. The combination of ICIs with other therapies, such as tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs), monoclonal antibodies, or local therapy, has been demonstrated to improve overall response rate and survival. In addition, modulating tumor microenvironment is a potential way to overcome the primary and secondary resistance to immunotherapies. In this review, we summarized the latest findings in the immune microenvironment, the mechanisms of their synergistic effects when combined with anti-VEGF agents or TKIs, as well as other kinds of immune treatment.", "substances": ["Antibodies, Monoclonal", "Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors", "Immunologic Factors", "Protein Kinase Inhibitors", "Nivolumab"]}, {"pmid": "35973935", "year": "2022", "title": "Biomarkers for response to immunotherapy in hepatobiliary malignancies.", "summary": "Multiple potential biomarkers for predicting ICI response of hepatobiliary malignancies have been explored and tried to apply in clinic. Yet there is no robust evidence to prove their clinical value in predicting immunotherapeutic response for patients with hepatobiliary malignancies. The identification of predictors for response to ICIs is an urgent need and major challenge. Further studies are warranted to validate the role of emerging biomarkers in predicting immunotherapeutic responses.", "substances": ["B7-H1 Antigen", "Biomarkers, Tumor", "Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors"]}, {"pmid": "35929515", "year": "2022", "title": "Hepatocellular carcinoma: Novel understandings and therapeutic strategies based on bile acids (Review).", "summary": "Bile acids (BAs) are the major components of bile and products of cholesterol metabolism. Cholesterol is catalyzed by a variety of enzymes in the liver to form primary BAs, which are excreted into the intestine with bile, and secondary BAs are formed under the modification of the gut microbiota. Most of the BAs return to the liver via the portal vein, completing the process of enterohepatic circulation. BAs have an important role in the development of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), which may participate in the progression of HCC by recognizing receptors such as farnesoid X receptor (FXR) and mediating multiple downstream pathways. Certain BAs, such as ursodeoxycholic acid and obeticholic acid, were indicated to be able to delay liver injury and HCC progression. In the present review, the structure and function of BAs were introduced and the metabolism of BAs and the process of enterohepatic circulation were outlined. Furthermore, the mechanisms by which BAs participate in the development of HCC were summarized and possible strategies for targeting BAs and key sites of their metabolic processes to treat HCC were suggested.", "substances": ["Bile Acids and Salts", "Cholesterol"]}, {"pmid": "36298831", "year": "2022", "title": "Innate Immunity, Inflammation, and Intervention in HBV Infection.", "summary": "Hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection is still one of the most dangerous viral illnesses. HBV infects around 257 million individuals worldwide. Hepatitis B in many individuals ultimately develops hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), which is the sixth most common cancer and the third leading cause of cancer-related deaths worldwide. The innate immunity acts as the first line of defense against HBV infection through activating antiviral genes. Along with the immune responses, pro-inflammatory cytokines are triggered to enhance the antiviral responses, but this may result in acute or chronic liver inflammation, especially when the clearance of virus is unsuccessful. To a degree, the host innate immune and inflammatory responses dominate the HBV infection and liver pathogenesis. Thus, it is crucial to figure out the signaling pathways involved in the activation of antiviral factors and inflammatory cytokines. Here, we review the interplay between HBV and the signal pathways that mediates innate immune responses and inflammation. In addition, we summarize current therapeutic strategies for HBV infection via modulating innate immunity or inflammation. Characterizing the mechanisms that underlie these HBV-host interplays might provide new approaches for the cure of chronic HBV infection.", "substances": ["Cytokines", "Antiviral Agents"]}, {"pmid": "35997677", "year": "2022", "title": "Advances in novel systemic therapies for advanced hepatocellular carcinoma.", "summary": "Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) represents the most frequent type of primary liver tumor. Most HCC patients present with advanced disease at diagnosis\u00a0and the recurrence rate after surgery remains high. Treatment options for advanced HCC are limited, with sorafenib representing the only systemic agent approved for treatment of advanced HCC in more than a decade. However, in recent years new molecular targeted therapies and immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) have revolutionized the treatment of advanced HCC. In particular, combinations of ICIs with antiangiogenic drugs, or with other ICIs, represent one of the most promising strategies. Herein we provide a comprehensive overview of the main therapeutic advances in the systemic treatment of HCC, focusing on the most relevant ongoing clinical trials.", "substances": ["Sorafenib", "Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors"]}, {"pmid": "35785525", "year": "2022", "title": "Ranking of transarterial and targeted therapies for advanced hepatocellular carcinoma in the era of immuno-oncology: A network meta-analysis of randomized sorafenib-controlled trials.", "summary": "To date, no studies have compared the new first-line atezolizumab+bevacizumab with transarterial therapies combined with the prior standard-of-care, sorafenib, in patients with advanced hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). We compared and ranked all relevant transarterial and targeted treatments competing with atezolizumab+bevacizumab for such disease, based on direct and indirect evidence. This network meta-analysis was conducted as a systematic review of phase 2 and 3 randomized sorafenib-controlled trials investigating systemic treatment strategies for HCCs unsuitable for or that progressed after surgery or locoregional treatments as first-line option published between 2008 and 2021. We ranked the treatments based on overall survival (OS) as the primary outcome, together with progression-free survival (PFS) and grade 3-4 adverse events. Subgroup analyses were also implemented to estimate intervention efficacies in particular groups. We identified 3451 publications, 15 trials consisting of 7158 patients, using 14 different therapies including combinations of sorafenib with transarterial chemoembolization (TACE), hepatic arterial chemoinfusion, and radioembolization. Regarding OS, atezolizumab+bevacizumab was the only regimen significantly superior to sorafenib (hazard ratio 0.42; 95% confidence interval [CI] 0.25-0.70), and it ranked first. This combination was also the best in the PFS analysis (0.59; 0.47-0.74), followed by lenvatinib (0.66; 0.57-0.76) and TACE+sorafenib (0.73; 0.59-0.91); all had significantly better outcomes than sorafenib alone. TACE+sorafenib (0.52; 0.27-1.00) was ranked first based on OS in a subset with portal invasion, but not in the metastatic series, with atezolizumab+bevacizumab second (0.58; 0.38-0.89). Lenvatinib (odds ratio 1.76; 95% CI 1.35-2.30) and TACE+sorafenib (2.02; 1.23-3.32), but not atezolizumab+bevacizumab (1.38; 0.93-2.05), were significantly less safe than sorafenib monotherapy. Conclusion: Our results indicate that atezolizumab+bevacizumab is the best first-line clinically relevant systemic modality in advanced HCC. TACE+sorafenib may also be considered for the disease with portal invasion. (PROSPERO No. CRD42021250701).", "substances": ["Antineoplastic Agents", "Phenylurea Compounds", "Quinolines", "Bevacizumab", "Sorafenib", "lenvatinib"]}, {"pmid": "35732267", "year": "2022", "title": "Advances in the application of different anesthetic methods and drugs in interventional therapy for hepatocellular carcinoma.", "summary": "Currently, interventional therapy has been widely used in clinical practice as a treatment method for hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). The limitations of interventional therapy lie mainly in the intolerable pain felt by the patients during the treatment process. Hence, the selection of the anesthetic methods and drugs, as well as the precise control of the dosages, are particularly crucial before the initiation of the treatment. Moreover, different anesthetic methods and drugs may also affect the patient's recovery differently. To better comprehend the current status of various anesthetic methods and drugs used in interventional therapy for HCC, this study reviewed the advantages and disadvantages of different anesthetic methods and drugs.", "substances": ["Anesthetics"]}, {"pmid": "35723760", "year": "2022", "title": "The efficacy of transarterial chemoembolization in downstaging unresectable hepatocellular carcinoma to curative therapy: a predicted regression model.", "summary": "Patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) outside Milan criteria (MC) may be candidates for curative therapy after successful downstaging. We aimed to identify the predictors of successful downstaging of unresectable HCC in patient by transarterial chemoembolization (TACE) outside MC. We performed a retrospective study on patients with unresectable HCC outside MC who received downstaging with TACE. Clinical and laboratory variables were recorded. We identified 101 patients with unresectable HCC who underwent initial TACE, who formed the derivation set of this study. Thirty patients who treated by TACE with the same selection criteria served as an external validation set. We performed univariate and multivariate logistic regression analyses to identify variables associated with successful downstaging. Then we did the predictive model to predict the efficiency of TACE. Of the 101 patients in the study, 26 patients (25.7%) were successfully downstaging and 75 patients (74.3%) failed downstaging. Multivariate analysis of factors to predict successful downstaging of HCC outside MC the number of tumor (P\u2009=\u20090.01), portal vein tumor thrombosis (PVTT)(p\u2009<\u20090.01), the size of tumor (P\u2009=\u20090.02), hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) (P\u2009=\u20090.01), \u03b1-fetoprotein (AFP) (P\u2009=\u20090.02) as significant predictors of successful downstaging. Then we constructed the predictive model. The area under the ROC curve (AUROC) of the predictive equation was 0.90 (95% confidence interval, 0.83-0.95). We found in our study that the number and size of tumors, PVTT, HBsAg, and AFP are good predictors of successful downstaging of unresectable HCC in patients by TACE outside the MC.", "substances": ["Hepatitis B Surface Antigens", "alpha-Fetoproteins"]}, {"pmid": "35506555", "year": "2022", "title": "Immunotherapy-Based Treatments of Hepatocellular Carcinoma: <i>AJR</i> Expert Panel Narrative Review.", "summary": "The advent of immunotherapy for patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) has changed the treatment landscape and conferred a survival benefit on patients with advanced HCC, who typically have a very poor prognosis. The most pronounced improvements in response, as documented by standardized response criteria based on CT or MRI, have been achieved when immunotherapy is combined with other systemic or locoregional therapies. Immune checkpoint inhibitor treatments result in unique patterns on CT and MRI that challenge the application of conventional response criteria such as RECIST, modified RECIST, and European Association for the Study of the Liver criteria. Thus, newer criteria have been developed to gauge therapy response or disease progression for patients receiving immunotherapy, including immune-related RECIST (iRECIST) and immune-modified RECIST (imRECIST), though these remain unvalidated. In this review, we describe the current landscape of immunotherapeutic agents used for HCC, summarize the results of published studies, review the pathobiologic mechanisms that provide a rationale for the use of these agents, and report on the status of response assessment for immunotherapy either alone or in combination with other treatment options. Finally, consensus statements are provided to inform radiologists about essential considerations in the era of a rapidly changing treatment paradigm for patients with HCC.", "substances": ["Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors"]}, {"pmid": "36290852", "year": "2022", "title": "First- and Second-Line Treatments for Patients with Advanced Hepatocellular Carcinoma in China: A Systematic Review.", "summary": "Chinese national guidelines recommend various systemic therapies for patients with advanced hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), but optimal treatment selection remains uncertain. To summarize the evidence supporting the systemic treatment of Chinese patients with advanced HCC, we performed a systematic review using a literature search of PubMed, Embase, China National Knowledge Infrastructure, and the Chinese Scientific Journal Database between 1 January 2009 and 15 June 2021, and abstracts from ASCO 2020, ASCO GI 2021, ESMO 2020, and ESMO GI 2020. The inclusion criteria were: Chinese patients aged \u226518 years with advanced HCC; first- or second-line systemic therapy; an evaluation of the efficacy or safety outcomes; and a randomized controlled, non-randomized controlled, prospective, or retrospective design. Thirty reports were identified for the following therapies: the single-agent tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI; <i>n</i> = 10), single-agent programmed death-1 (PD-1) inhibitor (<i>n</i> = 4), chemotherapy (<i>n</i> = 5), PD-1/programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-L1) inhibitor plus TKI (<i>n</i> = 6), PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitor plus bevacizumab or biosimilar (<i>n</i> = 4), and PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitor plus chemotherapy (<i>n</i> = 1). The heterogeneity between the studies precluded statistical analysis and the data were summarized using tables. In the first-line setting, evidence supported the use of atezolizumab or sintilimab plus bevacizumab or a biosimilar. There remains insufficient evidence to determine the optimal approved TKI-based therapeutic option, and active controlled trials in the second-line setting were lacking.", "substances": ["B7-H1 Antigen", "Bevacizumab", "Programmed Cell Death 1 Receptor", "Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors", "Biosimilar Pharmaceuticals", "Protein Kinase Inhibitors"]}, {"pmid": "36160651", "year": "2022", "title": "Therapeutic strategies for post-transplant recurrence of hepatocellular carcinoma.", "summary": "Despite stringent selection criteria, hepatocellular carcinoma recurrence after liver transplantation (LT) still occurs in up to 20% of cases, mostly within the first 2-3 years. No adjuvant treatments to prevent such an occurrence have been developed so far. However, a balanced use of immunosuppression with minimal dose of calcineurin inhibitors and possible addition of mammalian target of rapamycin inhibitors is strongly advisable. Moreover, several pre- and post-transplant predictors of recurrence have been identified and may help determine the frequency and duration of post-transplant follow-up. When recurrence occurs, the outcomes are poor with a median survival of 12 mo according to most retrospective studies. The factor that most impacts survival after recurrence is timing (within 1-2 years from LT according to different authors). Several therapeutic options may be chosen in case of recurrence, according to timing and disease presentation. Surgical treatment seems to provide a survival benefit, especially in case of late recurrence, while the benefit of locoregional treatments has been suggested only in small retrospective studies. When systemic treatment is indicated, sorafenib has been proved safe and effective, while only few data are available for lenvatinib and regorafenib in second line. The use of immune checkpoint inhibitors is controversial in this setting, given the safety warnings for the risk of acute rejection.", "substances": ["Calcineurin Inhibitors", "Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors", "Sorafenib", "TOR Serine-Threonine Kinases"]}, {"pmid": "36135076", "year": "2022", "title": "A Review of Current and Emerging Therapies for Advanced Hepatocellular Carcinoma.", "summary": "Hepatocellular carcinoma remains a leading cause of cancer-related deaths worldwide. Liver disease including cirrhosis and viral hepatitis remains among the leading causes of hepatocellular carcinoma and despite increased screening, many patients are diagnosed in the advanced stages precluding them from locoregional therapy. Therapeutic agents for advanced hepatocellular carcinoma were limited to Sorafenib for several years; however, with the emergence of molecular targeted therapies including tyrosine kinase inhibitors and vascular endothelial growth factor inhibitors, in addition to immunotherapies, the way hepatocellular carcinoma is treated has changed significantly. In this review, we summarize the key clinical trials that lead to the approval of these agents for systemic treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma and discuss the preferred sequence of treatment options as well as prospective studies for management of hepatocellular carcinoma.", "substances": ["Antineoplastic Agents", "Protein Kinase Inhibitors", "Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor A", "Sorafenib"]}, {"pmid": "36077433", "year": "2022", "title": "Novel Nanotechnology Approaches to Overcome Drug Resistance in the Treatment of Hepatocellular Carcinoma: Glypican 3 as a Useful Target for Innovative Therapies.", "summary": "Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the second most lethal tumor, with a 5-year survival rate of 18%. Early stage HCC is potentially treatable by therapies with curative intent, whereas chemoembolization/radioembolization and systemic therapies are the only therapeutic options for intermediate or advanced HCC. Drug resistance is a critical obstacle in the treatment of HCC that could be overcome by the use of targeted nanoparticle-based therapies directed towards specific tumor-associated antigens (TAAs) to improve drug delivery. Glypican 3 (GPC3) is a member of the glypican family, heparan sulfate proteoglycans bound to the cell surface via a glycosylphosphatidylinositol anchor. The high levels of GPC3 detected in HCC and the absence or very low levels in normal and non-malignant liver make GPC3 a promising TAA candidate for targeted nanoparticle-based therapies. The use of nanoparticles conjugated with anti-GPC3 agents may improve drug delivery, leading to a reduction in severe side effects caused by chemotherapy and increased drug release at the tumor site. In this review, we describe the main clinical features of HCC and the common treatment approaches. We propose the proteoglycan GPC3 as a useful TAA for targeted therapies. Finally, we describe nanotechnology approaches for anti-GPC3 drug delivery systems based on NPs for HCC treatment.", "substances": ["GPC3 protein, human", "Glypicans"]}, {"pmid": "36116416", "year": "2022", "title": "Role of genetic testing in hepatic, pancreatic, and biliary cancers.", "summary": "Hepatic, pancreatic, and biliary (HPB) cancers, including hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC), and cholangiocarcinoma (CCA) cause a disproportionate amount of the global cancer-related mortality. Despite advances in surgical technique and improved systemic therapies, overall 5-year survival remains dismal, especially for patients with pancreatic and biliary cancer. Historically, systemic therapies for patients with HPB cancers were administered in a \"one-size-fits-all\" approach due to limited reliable data on efficacy for specific patient populations. However, recent advances in genetic testing techniques have greatly improved our understanding of HPB oncogenesis, shedding light on specific genetic mutations responsible for progression from physiologic cellular regulation to uninhibited cellular replication and invasive cancer. Investigations into the oncogenesis of HPB cancers have revealed multiple actionable genetic variants, as well as increased susceptibilities to currently available systemic therapies. For example, patients with PDAC and a known BRCA mutation are more likely to benefit from FOLFIRINOX or gemcitabine plus cisplatin. While patients with CCA and a IDH1 mutation may benefit from ivosidenib. As a result, many national and societal guidelines now recommend some form of genetic testing in the workup of patients with HPB cancers. We herein review the role of genetic testing in these aggressive cancers including DNA sequencing techniques, clinically relevant mutations, therapeutic implications, and current clinical recommendations.", "substances": ["Cisplatin"]}, {"pmid": "35818992", "year": "2022", "title": "Mechanisms of resistance to tyrosine kinase inhibitors in liver cancer stem cells and potential therapeutic approaches.", "summary": "The administration of tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) for the treatment of advanced-stage patients is common in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). However, therapy resistance is often encountered, and its emergence eventually curtails long-term clinical benefits. Cancer stem cells (CSCs) are essential drivers of tumor recurrence and therapy resistance; thus, the elucidation of key hallmarks of resistance mechanisms of liver CSC-driven HCC may help improve patient outcomes and reduce relapse. The present review provides a comprehensive summary of the intrinsic and extrinsic mechanisms of TKI resistance in liver CSCs, which mediate treatment failure, and discusses potential strategies to overcome TKI resistance from a preclinical perspective.", "substances": ["Protein Kinase Inhibitors"]}, {"pmid": "35649192", "year": "2022", "title": "Hepatocellular Carcinoma: Pick the Winner-Tyrosine Kinase Inhibitor Versus Immuno-oncology Agent-Based Combinations.", "summary": "The treatment landscape for advanced hepatocellular carcinoma has changed dramatically over the past 4 years. We now have numerous options for patients in frontline, second-line, and beyond. The most significant impact has been the introduction of immunotherapy into our treatment paradigms. We now have regimens that induce consistent double-digit objective response rates and markedly improve overall survival (OS) with favorable side effect profiles. The combination of atezolizumab and bevacizumab has demonstrated that the combination of targeting programmed death-ligand 1 and the vascular endothelial growth factor axis can improve outcomes versus sorafenib in the IMBrave150 study. Results from the COSMIC-312 study evaluating the multikinase vascular endothelial growth factor receptor, hepatocyte growth factor receptor, and <i>AXL</i> tyrosine kinase receptor inhibitor cabozantinib in combination with atezolizumab improved progression-free survival versus sorafenib, but at this time, there is no improvement in OS and response rates were lower than expected. Additional data with similar combinations are awaited on the basis of encouraging early-phase data. In addition, the combination of cytotoxic T-lymphocyte-associated protein 4 and programmed cell death-1/programmed death-ligand 1 targeting is yielding similar promising early results, and the phase III HIMALAYA study met its primary end points of improving OS versus sorafenib for durvalumab plus tremelimumab and demonstrated noninferiority for single-agent durvalumab as well. However, this combination did not improve progression-free survival and objective response rates with this combination did not seem significantly different from that with single-agent durvalumab. Although there are still knowledge gaps in this rapidly changing landscape, we will address some of the important questions relevant to making therapeutic decisions in the management of advanced hepatocellular carcinoma in the modern era on the basis of our current knowledge of the safety and efficacy of these evolving regimens. The goal is to provide clinicians with the knowledge needed to optimize outcomes for their patients.", "substances": ["Protein Kinase Inhibitors", "Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor A", "Sorafenib"]}, {"pmid": "35168521", "year": "2022", "title": "Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors for Advanced Biliary Tract Cancer.", "summary": "BTC is a rare and aggressive cancer disease, bearing an overall dismal prognosis with only finite therapy options. Only combination chemotherapy regimens achieve disease control, which is often only short-lived since the tumor tissue exhibits high resistance to chemotherapy. The emergence of immune checkpoint inhibitors in recent years has significantly improved the survival of cancer patients and thus, has been integrated into the therapeutic management of several solid tumors, including melanoma, colorectal carcinoma (CRC), hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), triple- negative breast cancer (TNBC), and non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Investigation of the tumor biology of BTC and results of preliminary studies have shown that BTC may also be amenable to immunomodulation. In this review, we seek to give a comprehensive overview of the role, potential, and clinical significance of ICPI in the management of BTC.", "substances": ["B7-H1 Antigen", "Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors"]}, {"pmid": "36005172", "year": "2022", "title": "Drug Treatment for Advanced Hepatocellular Carcinoma: First-Line and Beyond.", "summary": "Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) has high mortality. The option of systemic therapy has increased significantly over the past five years. Sorafenib was the first multikinase inhibitor, introduced in 2007, as a treatment option for HCC, and it was the only effective systemic treatment for more than ten years. It was not until 2017 that several breakthroughs were made in the development of systemic strategies. Lenvatinib, another multikinase inhibitor, stood out successfully after sorafenib, and has been applied to clinical use in the first-line setting. Other multikinase inhibitors such as regorafenib, ramucirumab and cabozantinib, were approved in quick succession as second-line therapies. Concurrently, immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) have readily become established treatments for many solid tumors, including HCC. The most studied ICIs to date, target programmed cell death-1 (PD-1), its ligand PD-L1, and cytotoxic T-lymphocyte-associated protein 4 (CTLA-4). These ICIs have demonstrated efficacy in treating advanced HCC. More recently, combination of bevacizumab and atezolizumab (ICI targeting PD-L1) was approved as the gold-standard first-line therapy. Combination of ICIs with nivolumab and ipilimumab was also approved in the second-line setting for those who failed sorafenib. At the moment, numerous clinical trials in advanced HCC are underway, which will bring continuous change to the management, and increase the survival, for patients with advanced HCC. Our review article: (1) summarizes United States Food and Drug Administration (US FDA) approved systemic therapies in advanced HCC, (2) reports the evidence of currently approved treatments, (3) discusses potential drugs/drug combinations being currently tested in phase III clinical trials, and (4) proposes possible future directions in drug development for advanced HCC.", "substances": ["B7-H1 Antigen", "Protein Kinase Inhibitors", "Sorafenib"]}, {"pmid": "35595834", "year": "2022", "title": "Breakthroughs in hepatitis C research: from discovery to cure.", "summary": "In the 1970s, an unknown virus was suspected for documented cases of transfusion-associated hepatitis, a phenomenon called non-A, non-B hepatitis. In 1989, the infectious transmissible agent was identified and named hepatitis C virus (HCV) and, soon enough, the first diagnostic HCV antibody test was developed, which led to a dramatic decrease in new infections. Today, HCV infection remains a global health burden and a major cause of liver cirrhosis, hepatocellular carcinoma and liver transplantation. However, tremendous advances have been made over the decades, and HCV became the first curable, chronic viral infection. The introduction of direct antiviral agents revolutionized antiviral treatment, leading to viral eradication in more than 98% of all patients infected with HCV. This Perspective discusses the history of HCV research, which reads like a role model for successful translational research: starting from a clinical observation, specific therapeutic agents were developed, which finally were implemented in national and global elimination programmes.", "substances": ["Antiviral Agents"]}, {"pmid": "35588918", "year": "2022", "title": "The effects of sodium-glucose cotransporter 2 inhibitors on hepatocellular carcinoma: From molecular mechanisms to potential clinical implications.", "summary": "Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) occurs in the setting of prolonged liver inflammation, hepatocyte necrosis and regeneration in patients with cirrhosis. Despite the progress made in the medical management of the disorder during the past decades, the available pharmacological options remain limited, leading to poor survival rates and quality of life for patients with HCC. Sodium-glucose cotransporter 2 inhibitors (SGLT2) originally emerged as drugs for the treatment of hyperglycemia; however, they soon demonstrated important extra-glycemic properties, which led to their evaluation as potential treatments for a wide range of non-metabolic disorders. Evidence from animal studies suggests that SGLT2i have the potential to modulate molecular pathways that affect hallmarks of HCC, including inflammatory responses, cell proliferation, and oxidative stress. The impressive benefits of neurohormonal modulation observed with SGLT2i in congestive heart failure set the stage for human trials in cirrhotic ascites. However, future studies need to evaluate several aspects of the benefit to risk ratio of such a therapeutic strategy, including the co-administration with antineoplastic agents and diuretics, infections, use in hospitalized individuals, renal safety and hypovolemia. In this narrative review, we discuss the putative role of SGLT2i in the treatment of patients with HCC, starting with the mechanisms that could justify a possible benefit and ending with potential clinical implications and areas for future research.", "substances": ["Blood Glucose", "Hypoglycemic Agents", "Sodium-Glucose Transporter 2 Inhibitors", "Sodium"]}, {"pmid": "35507361", "year": "2022", "title": "Novel immunotherapy combinations in clinical trials for hepatocellular carcinoma: will they shape the future treatment landscape?", "summary": "The approval of atezolizumab plus bevacizumab and the positive results of the HIMALAYA trial have broadened the therapeutic scenario for advanced HCC, opening, at the same time, new challenges. First of all, predictive biomarkers to allocate patients to the best treatment are eagerly required; second, specific studies are urgently needed to define the use of new combinations in patients usually excluded from clinical trials, e.g. those with deranged liver function and HIV or transplant recipients. Finally, with new combinations being translated into earlier stages, profound changes are soon expected in the adjuvant and neoadjuvant setting.", "substances": ["Immunologic Factors"]}, {"pmid": "35430754", "year": "2022", "title": "Precision medicine in the era of potent antiviral therapy for chronic hepatitis B.", "summary": "With the wide use of potent and safe nucloes(t-)ide analogues (NAs) treatment, patient-centered care is getting important. Intensive care for comorbidity has gain utmost importance in care of aging chronic hepatitis B (CHB) patients with life-long antiviral treatment. Linkage to care of patients with CHB is essential for the goal of hepatitis B virus (HBV) eradication. As long-term suppression of HBV DNA replication does not prevent hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), prevention of HCC is another challenge for NAs treatment. There is a possibility of hepatocarcinogenesis in the immune-tolerant phase and risk of loss of patients during active monitoring seeking the time point for antiviral treatment initiation. Initiation of NAs treatment from the immune-tolerant phase would improve the linkage to care. However, universal recommendation is premature and evidence for cost-effectiveness needs to be accumulated. Early initiation of NAs in the evidence of significant disease progression, either HBV associated or comorbidity associated, would be a better strategy to reduce the risk of HCC in patients located in the gray zone.", "substances": ["Antiviral Agents"]}, {"pmid": "35347594", "year": "2022", "title": "The Treatment Landscape of Advanced Hepatocellular Carcinoma.", "summary": "The systemic treatment of advanced hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) has significantly evolved. Immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) have demonstrated clinical efficacy and more favorable toxicity profiles compared to multikinase inhibitors. Combination therapy with ICIs may provide greater anti-tumor activity compared to ICI monotherapy.\u00a0This review will discuss the current treatment landscape of advanced HCC, with a focus on recently completed and ongoing trials of ICI combinations, as well as future directions.\u00a0 RECENT FINDINGS: Atezolizumab/bevacizumab has been approved as first-line therapy in patients with advanced HCC based on its superiority over sorafenib in the pivotal IMbrave150 trial. Similarly, durvalumab/tremelimumab demonstrated an improvement in overall survival compared to sorafenib in the HIMALAYA trial.\u00a0Other combinations of ICIs with targeted agents and dual immune checkpoint blockade are currently being investigated in large randomized Phase 3 trials for the first-line treatment of HCC. Results of several ICI combination trials have been reported or are anticipated in the next few years and may potentially expand the therapy options in this patient population. Further areas of exploration include the use of ICIs in earlier stages of disease, other immunotherapy approaches such as adoptive T cell therapy, and the identification of predictive biomarkers. These ongoing efforts will likely further improve patient outcomes in the future.", "substances": ["Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors", "Sorafenib"]}, {"pmid": "35306748", "year": "2022", "title": "Conversion surgery after preoperative therapy for advanced hepatocellular carcinoma in the era of molecular targeted therapy and immune checkpoint inhibitors.", "summary": "The literature demonstrated the feasibility of conversion surgery after systemic therapy. Further clinical investigation of surgery after systemic therapy for advanced HCC may be undertaken by clearly distinguishing the tumor status as technically unresectable or oncologically unresectable but technically resectable.", "substances": ["Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors"]}, {"pmid": "35157957", "year": "2022", "title": "Metabolic dysfunction and cancer in HCV: Shared pathways and mutual interactions.", "summary": "HCV hijacks many host metabolic processes in an effort to aid viral replication. The resulting hepatic metabolic dysfunction underpins many of the hepatic and extrahepatic manifestations of chronic hepatitis C (CHC). However, the natural history of CHC is also substantially influenced by the host metabolic status: obesity, insulin resistance and hepatic steatosis are major determinants of CHC progression toward hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Direct-acting antivirals (DAAs) have transformed the treatment and natural history of CHC. While DAA therapy effectively eradicates the virus, the long-lasting overlapping metabolic disease can persist, especially in the presence of obesity, increasing the risk of liver disease progression. This review covers the mechanisms by which HCV tunes hepatic and systemic metabolism, highlighting how systemic metabolic disturbance, lipotoxicity and chronic inflammation favour disease progression and a precancerous niche. We also highlight the therapeutic implications of sustained metabolic dysfunction following sustained virologic response as well as considerations for patients who develop HCC on the background of metabolic dysfunction.", "substances": ["Antiviral Agents"]}, {"pmid": "35580650", "year": "2022", "title": "Experimental drug treatments for hepatocellular carcinoma: clinical trial failures 2015 to 2021.", "summary": "Combination atezolizumab and bevacizumab has changed the landscape of systemic treatment for patients with HCC when it became the first therapy after demonstrating improve outcomes over sorafenib. Clinical trials in patients with advanced HCC have inherent difficulty with challenges to determine if a patient's declining liver function is secondary to disease progression, worsening cirrhosis, or drug toxicity, which may skew results. As we gain more knowledge of underlying genetic alterations behind the pathophysiology of the development of HCC, molecular markers may be identified to assist in predicting which patients would respond to a specific therapy.", "substances": ["Antineoplastic Agents", "Drugs, Investigational", "Sorafenib"]}, {"pmid": "35570200", "year": "2022", "title": "Personalized treatment for hepatocellular carcinoma: Current status and future perspectives.", "summary": "Systemic treatment for hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) has been advancing rapidly over the last decade. More novel agents, including both targeted agents and immune checkpoint inhibitors, are available for physicians to use sequentially or concurrently for patients with advanced HCC. Despite more options, only a proportion of patients benefit from each regimen. Therefore, clinicians are facing challenges on how to choose the right regimen for the right patient with HCC, which raises the importance of personalized treatment approach. To advance personalized treatment for HCC, one approach relies on the acquisition of biomarker data from clinical trials to evaluate clinical parameters or genotypes in association with outcomes of selected drugs. This approach has led to finding of high baseline alpha-fetoprotein levels in association with benefits of ramucirumab. Cumulative findings from multiple clinical trials and translational studies also suggest that selected etiology and/or genotype of HCC could predict resistance to immune checkpoint inhibitors. The second approach is to decipher the tumor heterogeneity of HCC with an aim to identify clinically relevant patterns to guide clinical decisions. Tumor heterogeneity could exist within a single tumor (intra-tumoral heterogeneity), among different tumors in the same patient (inter-tumoral heterogeneity) or between primary and recurrent tumors (temporal tumor heterogeneity). The analyses of tumor heterogeneity have also been powered by coverage of tumor immune environment and incorporation of circulating tumor nucleic acid technology. Emerging publications have been reported above tumor heterogeneity exist in HCC, which is potentially clinically impactful.", "substances": ["Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors"]}, {"pmid": "35543895", "year": "2022", "title": "Systematic Review and Pharmacokinetic Meta-analysis of Doxorubicin Exposure in Transcatheter Arterial Chemoembolization\u00a0and Doxorubicin-Eluted Beads Chemoembolization for Treatment of Unresectable Hepatocellular Carcinoma.", "summary": "This meta-analysis provides exposure parameters of doxorubicin and justifies the advantage of DEB-TACE over TACE in terms of safety for patients with unresectable HCC. This study showed a marked association between the size of microsphere and exposure parameters of doxorubicin supporting the preference for small microspheres in DEB-TACE. The moderate and low quality of evidence is assigned to the C<sub>max</sub> and AUC, respectively.", "substances": ["Doxorubicin"]}, {"pmid": "35209776", "year": "2022", "title": "Safety of current antiviral drugs for chronic hepatitis B.", "summary": "NUCs generally show remarkable safety in patients taking them for long periods. Nevertheless, renal and bone toxicity may occur in a minority of patients on TDF therapy. These effects have been overcome by the recent release of TAF. Moreover, the currently available data do not allow firm conclusions on the superiority of TDF on ETV about hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) risk reduction. Observational studies involving more homogeneous cohorts are therefore needed; furthermore, long-term studies assessing the impact of TAF on this important topic are warranted.", "substances": ["Antiviral Agents", "Tenofovir"]}, {"pmid": "35021597", "year": "2022", "title": "Statin and aspirin for chemoprevention of hepatocellular carcinoma: Time to use or wait further?", "summary": "Preclinical studies highlighted potential therapeutic applications of aspirin and statins as anticancer agents based on their pleiotropic effects. Epidemiologic studies suggested the role of aspirin and statins in the chemoprevention of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). However, observational data is prone to bias, and no prospective randomized trials are currently available to assess the risks and benefits of statin or aspirin therapy for chemoprevention of HCC. It is therefore important for clinicians and researchers to be aware of the quality of current evidence regarding this issue. In this review, we summarize currently available evidence to assist clinicians with their decision to use statin or aspirin and provide information for further clinical investigations.", "substances": ["Hydroxymethylglutaryl-CoA Reductase Inhibitors", "Aspirin"]}, {"pmid": "35526340", "year": "2022", "title": "Dysregulation of immune checkpoint proteins in hepatocellular carcinoma: Impact on metabolic reprogramming.", "summary": "Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is an inflammation-induced malignant disease of the liver. Abundant expression of immune checkpoint proteins has been reported in HCCs, which contribute to immune cell dysfunction and HCC progression. Immune checkpoint inhibitors as monotherapy or combination therapy have been approved by Food and Drug Administration for advanced HCCs. However, the median survival has not significantly improved, suggesting the need for exploring additional mechanisms to increase efficacy. Metabolic reprogramming is one of the mechanisms by which checkpoint proteins promote tumor growth and immune cell dysfunction. This review provides an insight into the role of immune checkpoint proteins on metabolic reprogramming in tumor and immune cells. An in-depth understating of these could help in the\u00a0development of more efficacious and long-term therapies for HCC.", "substances": ["Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors", "Immune Checkpoint Proteins"]}, {"pmid": "35510319", "year": "2022", "title": "Risk of hepatocellular carcinoma in patients with chronic hepatitis c infection and stage 3 fibrosis after sustained virological response.", "summary": "Evidence on the risk of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) in patients with stage 3 liver fibrosis (F3) and SVR is scarce and continues to generate uncertainty. Furthermore, the distinction between F3 and F4 disease is complex. Consequently, the latest international guidelines recommend using the same screening protocol for HCC after SVR in both F3 and F4 patients. However, the risk of HCC in these groups is possibly different and maintaining screening for HCC in this population indefinitely generates an excessive burden for the health system. This editorial aims to review the available evidence on this topic.", "substances": ["Antiviral Agents"]}, {"pmid": "35129286", "year": "2022", "title": "Haemostatic alterations in patients with cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma: laboratory evidence and clinical implications.", "summary": "Venous thrombosis is a frequent complication in cancer and is associated with high morbidity and mortality. Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the most common primary liver cancer and a leading cause of cancer-related death worldwide, and it is associated with preexisting cirrhosis in 90% of cases. Patients with cirrhosis acquire complex alterations in their haemostatic system that may predispose them to bleed or thrombotic complications. There is growing evidence that HCC may tilt the haemostatic equilibrium in cirrhosis towards hypercoagulability, thus increasing the risk of venous thrombosis. Previously described mechanisms of HCC-driven thrombophilia include thrombocytosis and increased platelet activation/function, increased fibrinogen concentration/polymerization, enhanced thrombin generation, hypofibrinolysis, and release of tissue factor-expressing microvesicles. Nevertheless, there are currently no specific guidelines on risk stratification and management of thromboprophylaxis in patients with cirrhosis and HCC. Our review endeavours to summarize the latest findings on epidemiology, risk factors and pathogenesis of non-malignant venous thrombosis in patients with cirrhosis and HCC, and provide evidence in support of tailored management of thrombotic risk in these patients.", "substances": ["Anticoagulants", "Hemostatics"]}, {"pmid": "35080128", "year": "2022", "title": "Liver transplantation for hepatocellular carcinoma following checkpoint inhibitor therapy with nivolumab.", "summary": "Limited case series describe conflicting results regarding the safety of checkpoint inhibitors (CPI) prior to liver transplantation (LT). We reviewed single-center data on all consecutive patients who underwent LT for hepatocellular carcinoma treated with CPI between January 1, 2018, and January 30, 2021. Time from CPI to LT, immunosuppression, biopsy-proven acute cellular rejection (BPACR), graft loss and death were evaluated. Five patients with a mean age 65 (range 61-71) years underwent LT after CPI with nivolumab. Time from last CPI to LT ranged from 0.3 to 11\u00a0months. Two patients with <3\u00a0months from the last dose of CPI to LT developed BPACR and severe hepatic necrosis, one of whom required retransplantation with recurrent BPACR but without recurrent graft loss over 38\u00a0months of follow up. None of the patients who underwent LT >3\u00a0months from the last dose of CPI had BPACR. In conclusion, pretransplant use of CPIs, particularly within 90\u00a0days of LT, was associated with BPACR and immune-mediated hepatic necrosis. Future multicenter studies should consider a sufficient interval from the last dose of CPI to LT to mitigate the risk for adverse immune-mediated outcomes and graft loss.", "substances": ["Nivolumab"]}, {"pmid": "34919773", "year": "2022", "title": "Sirolimus or Everolimus Improves Survival After Liver Transplantation for Hepatocellular Carcinoma: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis.", "summary": "The effects of mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) inhibitors (sirolimus [SRL] and everolimus [EVL]) on survival in liver transplantation (LT) recipients with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) remain the subject of intense research. Therefore, we performed this systematic review and meta-analysis to investigate the potential survival benefits of mTOR inhibitors (mTORis). Embase, PubMed, and Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL) were searched for all randomized controlled trials (RCTs) and cohort studies investigating effects of SRL or EVL on LT recipients for HCC. The primary outcomes were 1-, 2-, 3-, and 5-year overall survival (OS), and the secondary outcomes were 1-, 2-, and 3-year recurrence-free survival (RFS) and adverse effects. Pooled relative risks (RRs) with 95% confidence interval (CI) were calculated by a fixed or random effects model with Mantel-Haenszel weighting. Subgroup analyses were performed according to crucial clinical characteristics. We also conducted sensitivity analyses to assess the reliability of our findings. A total of 17 studies were included. OS was improved in both RCTs (1 year: RR, 1.04; 95% CI, 1.00-1.08; 2 years: RR, 1.09; 95% CI, 1.02-1.16; 3 years: RR, 1.13; 95% CI, 1.04-1.24; 5 years: RR, 1.13; 95% CI, 1.02-1.26) and cohort studies (1 year: RR, 1.13; 95% CI, 1.06-1.20; 2 years: RR, 1.24; 95% CI, 1.16-1.32; 3 years: RR, 1.24; 95% CI, 1.15-1.34; 5 years: RR, 1.17; 95% CI, 1.10-1.24), with a lower risk of renal toxicity (RR, 0.75; 95% CI, 0.60 to 0.93). The 1-, 2-, and 3-year RFS were also improved. Current evidence indicates that SRL- or EVL-based immunosuppression improves OS and RFS with a lower risk of renal toxicity compared with mTORi-free immunosuppression. Nevertheless, results must be interpreted with caution.", "substances": ["Immunosuppressive Agents", "Everolimus", "Sirolimus"]}, {"pmid": "35405309", "year": "2022", "title": "Overexpressed or hyperactivated Rac1 as a target to treat hepatocellular carcinoma.", "summary": "Despite novel targeted and immunotherapies, the prognosis remains bleak for patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), especially for advanced and/or metastatic forms. The rapid emergence of drug resistance is a major obstacle in the success of chemo-, targeted-, immuno-therapies of HCC. Novel targets are needed. The prominent roles of the small GTPase Rac1 in the development and progression of HCC are discussed here, together with its multiple protein partners, and the targeting of Rac1 with RNA-based regulators and small molecules. We discuss the oncogenic functions of Rac1 in HCC, including the contribution of Rac1 mutants and isoform Rac1b. Rac1 is a ubiquitous target, but the protein is frequently overexpressed and hyperactivated in HCC. It contributes to the aggressivity of the disease, with key roles in cancer cell proliferation, tumor metastasis and resistance to treatment. Small molecule targeting Rac1, indirectly or directly, have shown anticancer effects in HCC experimental models. Rac1-binding agents such as EHT 1864 and analogues offer novel opportunities to combat HCC. We discuss the different modalities to repress Rac1 overactivation in HCC with small molecules and the combination with reference drugs to promote cancer cell death and to repress cell invasion. We highlight the necessity to combine Rac1-targeted approach with appropriate biomarkers to select Rac1 activated tumors. Our analysis underlines the prominent oncogenic functions of Rac1 in HCC and discuss the modalities to target this small GTPase. Rac1 shall be considered as a valid target to limit the acquired and intrinsic resistance of HCC tumors and their metastatic potential.", "substances": ["RAC1 protein, human", "Monomeric GTP-Binding Proteins", "rac1 GTP-Binding Protein"]}, {"pmid": "34297207", "year": "2022", "title": "The efficacy of immune checkpoint inhibitors in advanced hepatocellular carcinoma: a meta-analysis based on 40 cohorts incorporating 3697 individuals.", "summary": "The ICIs was promising in HCC with good efficacy and tolerated toxicity. Compared with ICIs monotherapy, the joint application of ICIs and anti-VEGF agents can contribute a lot more benefits to the survival of patients according to clinical practices.", "substances": ["Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors"]}, {"pmid": "35431288", "year": "2022", "title": "Conversion therapy with an immune checkpoint inhibitor and an antiangiogenic drug for advanced hepatocellular carcinoma: A review.", "summary": "Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) has been the fifth most common malignancy worldwide and is the second most common cause of tumor-related mortality globally. In China, a high proportion of patients with HCC present with an advanced stage of the disease, so HCC is a major challenge to the healthcare system and a substantial socioeconomic burden. The last decade has witnessed an expansion of the treatment landscape for HCC. Various approaches have been explored as potential conversion therapies for advanced HCC. Despite controversies, mounting data have indicated that successful conversion therapy followed by subsequent surgery is achievable in a population of patients with advanced HCC. This conversion therapy is a safe and promising treatment strategy to prolong long-term outcomes. Based on preliminary research, this review has assembled and summarized current clinical experience with and evidence of the efficacy of conversion therapies followed by subsequent surgery for advanced HCC.", "substances": ["Angiogenesis Inhibitors", "Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors"]}, {"pmid": "35416635", "year": "2022", "title": "Systemic Therapy in Metastatic Hepatocellular Carcinoma.", "summary": "The combination of atezolizumab and bevacizumab has become a new standard of care for initial systemic therapy in eligible patients, replacing sorafenib in the first line for many patients. Lenvatinib, a multikinase inhibitor, is also a new first line treatment option for patients who are not eligible for immunotherapy. Several additional options for second line treatment were also reviewed in detail in this paper. New systemic therapies for advanced HCC have prolonged overall survival. However, these new therapies are primarily approved for patients with Child-Pugh A classification with few options for patients with Child-Pugh B disease. Further work is needed to expand options for patients with more advanced liver disease and to optimize the sequencing of these new therapies.", "substances": ["Sorafenib"]}, {"pmid": "26943041", "year": "2017", "title": "Systematic review with network meta-analysis: statins and risk of hepatocellular carcinoma.", "summary": "Our analyses indicate the superiority of usage of statins in reduction of liver cancer. Available evidence supports that fluvastatin is the most effective strategy for reducing HCC risk compared with other statin interventions.", "substances": ["Fatty Acids, Monounsaturated", "Hydroxymethylglutaryl-CoA Reductase Inhibitors", "Indoles", "Pyridines", "Fluvastatin", "Rosuvastatin Calcium", "Lovastatin", "Atorvastatin", "Simvastatin", "cerivastatin", "Pravastatin"]}, {"pmid": "35632642", "year": "2022", "title": "Early Treatment Consideration in Patients with Hepatitis B 'e' Antigen-Positive Chronic Infection: Is It Time for a Paradigm Shift?", "summary": "Chronic hepatitis B (CHB) is associated with significant morbidity and mortality, due to the adverse sequelae of cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). To date, antiviral therapy has been reserved for patients with ostensibly active liver disease, fibrosis or cirrhosis, and/or increased risk of HCC. Historically, patients with hepatitis B 'e' antigen (HBeAg)-positive chronic infection, were not offered antiviral therapy. Nevertheless, there has been compelling evidence emerging in recent years, demonstrating that this disease phase is in fact not characterized by immunological tolerance. HBV integration into the human genome is a frequent event found in these patients. Additionally, it may well be associated with active inflammation and fibrosis, even in the presence of persistently normal liver enzymes. Likewise, it appears that the mechanisms of hepatocarcinogenesis are already present during this early stage of the disease. This was reflected in the European Association for the Study of the Liver (EASL) guidelines, where treating patients above the age of 30 years with HBeAg-positive chronic infection was proposed. Lowering the treatment threshold to broaden treatment eligibility is likely to slow disease progression and reduce the risk of developing HCC. The current review discusses the reasons to consider early antiviral therapy in HBeAg-positive chronic infection.", "substances": ["Antiviral Agents", "Hepatitis B e Antigens"]}, {"pmid": "35301112", "year": "2022", "title": "Anti-rheumatic drug-induced hepatitis B virus reactivation and preventive strategies for hepatocellular carcinoma.", "summary": "To date, an estimated 300 million people worldwide have been infected with chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV). Although anti-HBV therapies have improved the long-term survival profile of chronic carriers, viral reactivation still poses a significant challenge for preventing HBV-related hepatitis, hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), and death. Immuno-modulating drugs, which are widely applied in managing rheumatic conditions, are commonly associated with HBV reactivation (HBVr) as a result of drug-induced immune suppression. However, there are few reports on the risk of HBVr and the medication management plan for HBV carriers, especially rheumatic patients. In this review, we summarize immuno-modulating drug-induced HBVr during rheumatoid therapy and its preventive strategies for HBVr-induced liver diseases, especially cirrhosis and HCC. These findings will assist with developing treatments for rheumatic patients, and prevent HBV-related cirrhosis and HCC.", "substances": ["Antirheumatic Agents", "Antiviral Agents"]}, {"pmid": "34167433", "year": "2022", "title": "Lenvatinib plus pembrolizumab: the next frontier for the treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma?", "summary": "The landscape of new agents and combinations continues to expand. Recently, immune-based combinations have reported important results in advanced HCC, as witnessed by the landmark IMbrave150 trial. Based on the promising results of early phase clinical trials, lenvatinib plus pembrolizumab has the potential to represent a novel treatment option in this setting.", "substances": ["Antibodies, Monoclonal, Humanized", "Phenylurea Compounds", "Quinolines", "pembrolizumab", "lenvatinib"]}, {"pmid": "35709779", "year": "2022", "title": "Non-invasive screening, staging and management of metabolic dysfunction-associated fatty liver disease (MAFLD) in type 2 diabetes mellitus patients: what do we know so far ?", "summary": "Metabolic dysfunction-associated fatty liver disease (MAFLD) is the evidence of steatosis in the setting of a metabolic risk condition such as type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM). Indeed, T2DM and liver steatosis share common pathophysiological mechanisms, and one can lead to the other. MAFLD can progress from simple steatosis to non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), fibrosis and cirrhosis as well as hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Because of the lack / disparity of guidelines for MAFLD screening, which is asymptomatic in its early stages, it is not rare that diabetic patients are belatedly diagnosed with NASH cirrhosis or HCC. We therefore recommend systematic non-invasive tests (NITs) that calculate an estimate of the risk based on readily available anthropometric and biological parameters. These include the fatty liver index (FLI) for steatosis detection and at least one of the following for fibrosis: non-alcoholic fatty liver disease fibrosis score (NFS), fibrosis-4 index (FIB-4) or Hepamet fibrosis score (HFS). Indeed, NFS and FIB-4 are the best predictors of liver-related events, while FIB-4 and HFS correlate with overall mortality. Systematic literature review found only few retrospective or cross-sectional studies using NITs for systematic steatosis and fibrosis screening in T2DM patients, with a crucial need for prospective studies. This screening strategy will allow targeted patients to be referred for further liver investigation (e.g. ultrasound, elastometry) and care. Current treatment modalities of MAFLD in T2DM patients range from lifestyle and dietary interventions to specific glucose-lowering drugs that recently showed some benefits regarding MAFLD, such as pioglitazone, glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonists and sodium-glucose cotransporter-2 inhibitors. Other treatments are currently under investigation.", "substances": ["Sodium-Glucose Transporter 2 Inhibitors", "Glucose"]}, {"pmid": "35081747", "year": "2022", "title": "Atezolizumab and bevacizumab with transarterial chemoembolization in hepatocellular carcinoma: the DEMAND trial protocol.", "summary": "The combination of the anti-PD-L1 antibody atezolizumab and the anti-VEGF bevacizumab is the first approved immunotherapeutic regimen for first-line therapy in\u00a0patients with unresectable hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), currently approved in more than 80 countries. The efficacy and tolerability of this regimen suggest that the use of atezolizumab\u00a0+\u00a0bevacizumab could be extended to the treatment of patients with intermediate-stage HCC in combination with transarterial chemoembolization (TACE). The authors describe the rationale and design of the DEMAND study. This investigator-initiated, multicenter, randomized phase II study is the first trial to evaluate the safety and efficacy of atezolizumab\u00a0+\u00a0bevacizumab prior to or in combination with TACE in patients with intermediate-stage HCC. The primary end point is the 24-month survival rate; secondary end points include objective response rate, progression-free survival, safety and quality of life. Clinical Trial Registration: NCT04224636\u00a0(ClinicalTrials.gov).", "substances": ["Antibodies, Monoclonal, Humanized", "Bevacizumab", "atezolizumab"]}, {"pmid": "34955380", "year": "2022", "title": "Management of hepatocellular carcinoma patients with portal vein tumor thrombosis: A narrative review.", "summary": "HCC with PVTT is still a thorny problem, and effective therapeutics need to be explored.", "substances": ["Sorafenib"]}, {"pmid": "35248080", "year": "2022", "title": "Lipid based nanoparticles as a novel treatment modality for hepatocellular carcinoma: a comprehensive review on targeting and recent advances.", "summary": "Liver cancer is considered one of the deadliest diseases with one of the highest disease burdens worldwide. Among the different types of liver cancer, hepatocellular carcinoma is considered to be the most common type. Multiple conventional approaches are being used in treating hepatocellular carcinoma. Focusing on drug treatment, regular agents in conventional forms fail to achieve the intended clinical outcomes. In order to improve the treatment outcomes, utilizing nanoparticles-specifically lipid based nanoparticles-are considered to be one of the most promising approaches being set in motion. Multiple forms of lipid based nanoparticles exist including liposomes, solid lipid nanoparticles, nanostructured lipid carriers, microemulsion, nanoemulsion, phytosomes, lipid coated nanoparticles, and nanoassemblies. Multiple approaches are used to enhance the tumor uptake as well tumor specificity such as intratumoral injection, passive targeting, active targeting, and stimuli responsive nanoparticles. In this review, the effect of utilizing lipidic nanoparticles is being discussed as well as the different tumor uptake enhancement techniques used.", "substances": ["Drug Carriers", "Lipid Nanoparticles", "Lipids", "Liposomes"]}, {"pmid": "35248060", "year": "2022", "title": "Drug delivery strategy in hepatocellular carcinoma therapy.", "summary": "Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is one of the most common malignant tumors worldwide, with high rates of recurrence and death. Surgical resection and ablation therapy have limited efficacy for patients with advanced HCC and poor liver function, so pharmacotherapy is the first-line option for those patients. Traditional antitumor drugs have the disadvantages of poor biological distribution and pharmacokinetics, poor target selectivity, high resistance, and high toxicity to nontargeted tissues. Recently, the development of nanotechnology has significantly improved drug delivery to tumor sites by changing the physical and biological characteristics of drugs and nanocarriers to improve their pharmacokinetics and biological distribution and to selectively accumulate cytotoxic agents at tumor sites. Here, we systematically review the tumor microenvironment of HCC and the recent application of nanotechnology in HCC. Video Abstract.", "substances": ["Antineoplastic Agents"]}, {"pmid": "35246145", "year": "2022", "title": "The efficacy and safety of Apatinib combined with TACE in the treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma: a meta-analysis.", "summary": "Apatinib combined with TACE is more effective than TACE alone in the treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma, but it has certain adverse reactions.", "substances": ["Pyridines", "apatinib"]}, {"pmid": "35109664", "year": "2022", "title": "Dual immune checkpoint blockade in hepatocellular carcinoma: where do we stand?", "summary": "Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) represents the fourth most common cause of cancer-related death. Surgery, local ablative therapies and liver transplantation are the only potentially curative strategies, but the majority of patients present with advanced disease at diagnosis or develop recurrence after surgery. In recent years, immunotherapy for HCC has received growing interest, and one of the most promising strategies is the association of two immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs), which has already demonstrated its potential in other solid tumors such as melanoma and renal cell carcinoma. Herein, we discuss the role and the biologic rationale of dual immune checkpoint blockade in HCC patients, focusing on the two ICI\u00a0combinations: nivolumab plus ipilimumab and durvalumab plus tremelimumab.", "substances": ["Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors"]}, {"pmid": "35541908", "year": "2022", "title": "New insights into checkpoint inhibitor immunotherapy and its combined therapies in hepatocellular carcinoma: from mechanisms to clinical trials.", "summary": "Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is one of the most lethal tumors in China and worldwide, although first-line therapies for HCC, such as atezolizumab and bevacizumab, have been effective with good results, the researches on new therapies have attracted much attention. With the deepening research on tumor immunology, the role and operation mechanism of immune cells in the tumor microenvironment (TME) of HCC have been explained, such as programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1) binding to ligand could cause T cell exhaustion and reduce IFN-\u03b3 T cell secretion, cytotoxic T lymphocyte 4 (CTLA-4) and CD28 mediate immunosuppression by competing for B7 protein and disrupting CD28 signal transduction pathway, which also lays the foundation for the development and application of more new immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs). The biological behavior of various immune checkpoints has been proved in HCC, such as PD-1, programmed cell death ligand 1 (PD-L1), CTLA-4 and so on, leading to a series of clinical trials. Currently, FDA approved nivolumab, pembrolizumab and nivolumab plus ipilimumab for the treatment of HCC. However, the treatment of ICI has the disadvantages of low response rate and many side effects, so the combination of ICIs and various other therapies (such as VEGF or VEGFR inhibition, neoadjuvant and adjuvant therapy, locoregional therapies) has been derived. Further studies on immune checkpoint mechanisms may reveal new therapeutic targets and new combination therapies in the future.", "substances": ["B7-H1 Antigen", "CD28 Antigens", "CTLA-4 Antigen", "Ligands", "Programmed Cell Death 1 Receptor", "Nivolumab"]}, {"pmid": "35458431", "year": "2022", "title": "Management and Treatment of Patients with Chronic Hepatitis B: Towards Personalized Medicine.", "summary": "The currently available antiviral treatments (Peg-Interferon-\u03b1 and Nucleos(t)ide Analogues, NA) for chronic hepatitis B (CHB) achieve a functional cure (serum HBsAg and HDV-DNA clearance) of HBV infection in a limited number of patients. Nevertheless, the continuous pharmacological suppression of viral replication by NA halts liver disease progression lowering the risk of HCC development and improving the survival. In the near future, to fully exploit the potential of old and new drugs for HBV treatment a personalized approach to the patients will be required according to an accurate definition of their virologic, immunologic and clinical profile.", "substances": ["Antiviral Agents", "DNA, Viral", "Hepatitis B Surface Antigens"]}, {"pmid": "35409028", "year": "2022", "title": "SGLT2 Inhibitors as the Most Promising Influencers on the Outcome of Non-Alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease.", "summary": "Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), the most frequent liver disease in the Western world, is a common hepatic manifestation of metabolic syndrome (MetS). A specific cure has not yet been identified, and its treatment is currently based on risk factor therapy. Given that the initial accumulation of triglycerides in the liver parenchyma, in the presence of inflammatory processes, mitochondrial dysfunction, lipotoxicity, glucotoxicity, and oxidative stress, can evolve into non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). The main goal is to identify the factors contributing to this evolution because, once established, untreated NASH can progress through fibrosis to cirrhosis and, ultimately, be complicated by hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Several drugs have been tested in clinical trials for use as specific therapy for NAFLD; most of them are molecules used to cure type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM), which is one of the main risk factors for NAFLD. Among the most studied is pioglitazone, either alone or in combination with vitamin E, glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) receptor agonists, dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Actually, the most promising category seems to be sodium-glucose cotransporter (SGLT2) inhibitors. Their action is carried out by inhibiting glucose reabsorption in the proximal renal tubule, leading to its increased excretion in urine and decreased levels in plasma. Experimental studies in animal models have suggested that SGLT2 inhibitors may have beneficial modulatory effects on NAFLD/NASH, and several trials in patients have proven their beneficial effects on liver enzymes, BMI, blood lipids, blood glucose, and insulin resistance in NAFLD patients, thus creating strong expectations for their possible use in preventing the evolution of liver damage in these patients. We will review the main pathogenetic mechanisms, diagnostic modalities, and recent therapies of NAFLD, with particular attention to the use of SGLT2 inhibitors.", "substances": ["Dipeptidyl-Peptidase IV Inhibitors", "Hypoglycemic Agents", "Sodium-Glucose Transporter 2 Inhibitors", "Glucose"]}], "Hodgkin Disease": [{"pmid": "31950058", "year": "2020", "title": "Safety and Efficacy in Relapsed or Refractory Classic Hodgkin's Lymphoma Treated with PD-1 Inhibitors: A Meta-Analysis of 9 Prospective Clinical Trials.", "summary": "Our meta-analysis suggested that anti-PD1 monoclonal antibodies improve the outcomes of response and survival rates with tolerable AEs in cHL. However, evidence of immune checkpoint inhibitors for patients with cHL remained insufficient. Well-designed randomized controlled trials or at least nonrandomized trials with a control group should be conducted to confirm the findings of this meta-analysis.", "substances": ["Antibodies, Monoclonal", "Immunosuppressive Agents", "PDCD1 protein, human", "Programmed Cell Death 1 Receptor"]}, {"pmid": "35948477", "year": "2022", "title": "Hodgkin Lymphoma on Hemodialysis: A Review of Treatment and Recommendations.", "summary": "Chemotherapy for classic Hodgkin lymphoma (cHL) patients on hemodialysis (HD) is an extremely challenging situation because pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic studies of most chemotherapeutics are lacking for the HD patient, and the small amount of evidence available comes mostly from case reports and small case series. In this review, we provide recommendations based on treatment experience of cHL patients on HD in the literature. HD patients undergoing chemotherapy are at risk of overdose and toxicities because many drugs are significantly eliminated by the kidneys, and at the same time, are at risk of undertreatment because many drugs are removed by HD. Therefore, dose modifications and timing of drug administration in relation to HD sessions must be carefully planned according to the distinct traits of each chemotherapeutic. We carried out an exhaustive literature review of reports of actual administrations of chemotherapeutics to cHL on HD, and also extrapolated data from reports of the same chemotherapeutics that were administered to HD patients with malignancies other than cHL. We summarized the information found in the literature, and provide practical and balanced recommendations concerning dose modifications and optimal timing of drug administration in relation to HD sessions for each chemotherapeutic. Chemotherapy regimens and individual chemotherapeutics studied in this review include ABVD (doxorubicin\u00a0+\u00a0bleomycin\u00a0+\u00a0vinblastine\u00a0+\u00a0dacarbazine), BEACOPP (bleomycin\u00a0+\u00a0etoposide\u00a0+\u00a0doxorubicin\u00a0+\u00a0cyclophosphamide\u00a0+\u00a0vincristine\u00a0+\u00a0procarbazine\u00a0+\u00a0prednisolone), MOPP (mechlorethamine\u00a0+\u00a0vincristine\u00a0+\u00a0procarbazine\u00a0+\u00a0prednisolone), gemcitabine, vinorelbine, brentuximab vedotin, and PD-1 inhibitors (nivolumab and pembrolizumab).", "substances": ["Vinblastine", "Vincristine", "Etoposide", "Brentuximab Vedotin", "Mechlorethamine", "Procarbazine", "Vinorelbine", "Nivolumab", "Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors", "Bleomycin", "Dacarbazine", "Doxorubicin", "Cyclophosphamide", "Prednisolone"]}, {"pmid": "35355217", "year": "2022", "title": "Discordant lymphomas of classic Hodgkin lymphoma and peripheral T-cell lymphoma following dupilumab treatment for atopic dermatitis.", "summary": "There have recently been a few case reports of cutaneous T-cell lymphomas following treatment of atopic dermatitis with dupilumab, which works binding to the interleukin (IL)-4 receptor and inhibiting the JAK/ STAT cascade located downstream of both IL-4 and IL-13. Here, we report the first case of Hodgkin lymphoma (HL) in a patient treated with dupilumab for one year. Based on multiple biopsies, this case was diagnosed as a rare combination of discordant lymphomas of HL and peripheral T-cell lymphoma. As both lymphomas are known to overexpress IL-13, future studies should carefully evaluate the effect of anti-IL-13 therapy. A literature review showed that dermatitis persisted or worsened in all reported lymphoma cases following dupilumab and cutaneous T-cell lymphoma was diagnosed within 2\u00a0years of the start of treatment with dupilumab. In these cases, with the addition of our own, the median interval was 12\u00a0months, and 31% needed multiple biopsies for diagnosis of lymphomas. Our results demonstrate a need to be alert to potential development of lymphomas associated with the IL-13 and IL-4 pathways in patients with poorly responsive atopic dermatitis receiving dupilumab, and to consider the possibility of composite or discordant lymphomas in diagnosis and treatment of lymphomas.", "substances": ["Antibodies, Monoclonal", "Antibodies, Monoclonal, Humanized", "Interleukin-4", "dupilumab"]}, {"pmid": "35344061", "year": "2022", "title": "Interpretation of 2-[<sup>18</sup>F]FDG PET/CT in Hodgkin lymphoma patients treated with immune checkpoint inhibitors.", "summary": "The development of immunotherapy has revolutionized cancer treatment, improving the outcome and survival of many patients. Immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs), the most common form of immunotherapy, use antibodies to restore T-cells' anti-tumor activity. Immune checkpoint inhibitors are gaining ground in the therapeutic strategy across various cancers. Although widely used in solid tumors, ICIs have shown remarkable efficacy in patients with Hodgkin lymphoma. 2-[<sup>18</sup>F]Fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose (FDG)-positron emission tomography (PET)/CT is the gold standard to stage and monitor responses in Hodgkin lymphoma. This article reviewed the use of 2-[<sup>18</sup>F]FDG-PET/CT in patients with Hodgkin lymphoma treated with ICI, focusing on image interpretation for response monitoring and detecting adverse events. Key Points \u2022 Immune checkpoint inhibitors have dramatically improved the outcome of patients with cancer. Their mechanisms of action induce inflammatory processes that might translate into a high 2-[<sup>18</sup>F]FDG uptake visible on 2-[<sup>18</sup>F]FDG-PET/CT, requiring an adaptation of the evaluation criteria. \u2022 PET readers should be aware of new patterns of response observed with immunotherapy in assessing treatment response in HL patients. \u2022 -[<sup>18</sup>F]FDG-PET/CT has an unparalleled ability of assessing tumor response, visualizing signs of immune activation as well as immune-related adverse events in a one-stop-shop examination.", "substances": ["Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors", "Fluorodeoxyglucose F18"]}, {"pmid": "35254922", "year": "2022", "title": "Treatment Strategies for Advanced Classical Hodgkin Lymphoma in the Times of Dacarbazine Shortage.", "summary": "The shortage of dacarbazine (DTIC) has created an acute and unprecedented crisis in the management of patients with classical Hodgkin lymphoma, with DTIC being an essential component of doxorubicin, bleomycin, vinblastine, and DTIC (ABVD) and prior attempts at omitting DTIC from ABVD leading to substantial loss of efficacy. In this review, we discuss the strategies to manage classical Hodgkin lymphoma during the DTIC shortage and propose a treatment algorithm on the basis of fitness and ability to receive anthracyclines safely.", "substances": ["Bleomycin", "Vinblastine", "Dacarbazine", "Doxorubicin"]}, {"pmid": "27531149", "year": "2017", "title": "Comparison of the efficiency of ABVD versus BEACOPP for Hodgkin lymphoma treatment: a meta-analysis.", "summary": "To compare the efficiency of doxorubicin, bleomycin, vinblastine, and dacarbazine (ABVD) against that of bleomycin, etoposide, doxorubicin, cyclophosphamide, vincristine, procarbazine, and prednisone (BEACOPP) for treating Hodgkin lymphoma (HL). An extensive English-language literature retrieval on clinical outcomes after treatment by ABVD versus BEACOPP was conducted on Medline, PubMed, and Embase through the period ending December 2015. Odds ratio (OR) with corresponding 95\u00a0% confidence interval (95\u00a0% CI) was pooled based on the heterogeneity across individual studies. In total, seven articles reporting on four trials were included in this meta-analysis. Patients assigned to BEACOPP therapy had a better complete remission (CR) rate (OR\u00a0=\u00a00.55, 95\u00a0% CI 0.35, 0.87), overall survival (OS) greater than 5\u00a0years (OR\u00a0=\u00a00.64, 95\u00a0% CI 0.51, 0.81), and progression-free survival (PFS, OR\u00a0=\u00a00.56, 95\u00a0% CI 0.38, 0.81) than patients assigned to ABVD therapy. Subgroup analysis stratified using a different strategy showed no significant difference for OS between short courses of escalated BEACOPP combined with standard BEACOPP and that for ABVD (OR\u00a0=\u00a00. 72, 95\u00a0% CI 0. 45, 1.15). Reduced progression/relapse, better CR, and similar OS were observed with BEACOPP, indicating its superior efficiency of BEACOPP in the treatment of HL. However, more analysis of treatment-related toxicity is needed. ", "substances": ["Bleomycin", "Procarbazine", "Vincristine", "Vinblastine", "Etoposide", "Dacarbazine", "Doxorubicin", "Cyclophosphamide", "Prednisone"]}, {"pmid": "34323643", "year": "2022", "title": "Effectiveness of brentuximab vedotin monotherapy in relapsed or refractory Hodgkin lymphoma: a systematic review and meta-analysis.", "summary": "This systematic review and meta-analysis aimed to determine the effectiveness of brentuximab vedotin (BV) in relapsed/refractory classical Hodgkin lymphoma (R/R cHL) in the clinical practice setting using most recent results. A total of 32 observational studies reporting on treatment patterns, overall response rate (ORR), complete response (CR) rate, progression-free survival (PFS), overall survival (OS), and adverse events were found. After four cycles, a random-effect model yielded pooled ORR and CR rates of 62.6% (95% confidence interval (CI): 56.0-68.9; <i>I</i><sup>2</sup>\u2009=\u20099.7%) and 32.9% (95% CI, 20.8-46.3, <i>I</i><sup>2</sup>\u2009=\u200964.8%), respectively. Regarding survival, 1-year, 2-year, and 5-year PFS ranged from 52.1% to 63.2%, 45.2% to 56.2%, and 31.9% to 33.0%, respectively. OS rates were 68.2-82.7%, 58.0-81.9%, and 58.0-62.0%, respectively. Most common adverse events were hematological toxicities (neutropenia: 13.3-23%, anemia: 8.8-39.0%, and thrombocytopenia: 4-4.6%), and grade \u22653 peripheral neuropathy (3.3-7.3%). This study supports the effectiveness and safety of BV in R/R cHL patients in the real-world setting.", "substances": ["Immunoconjugates", "Brentuximab Vedotin"]}, {"pmid": "34911330", "year": "2022", "title": "Advanced stages of classical Hodgkin lymphoma - first-line treatment options.", "summary": "", "substances": ["Antibodies, Monoclonal, Humanized", "Antineoplastic Agents", "Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors", "Nivolumab", "Brentuximab Vedotin", "pembrolizumab"]}, {"pmid": "34350815", "year": "2022", "title": "New approaches to managing relapsed/refractory Hodgkin lymphoma: the role of checkpoint inhibitors and beyond.", "summary": "<b>Introduction</b>: While most patients with Hodgkin lymphoma (HL) are successfully cured with frontline therapy, unfortunately far too many patients have primary refractory disease or relapse after initial treatment, and outcomes for these patients remain suboptimal.<b>Areas Covered</b>: Treatment for relapsed/refractory (R/R) HL remains an ongoing challenge; however, the approval of brentuximab vedotin (BV) and the checkpoint inhibitors pembrolizumab and nivolumab have given us promising therapies with high response rates and improved progression free survival. We performed a literature search using PubMed on all HL studies investigating immunotherapy within the past 10\u00a0years.<b>Expert Opinion</b>: Both BV and checkpoint inhibitors have good single agent activity but appear more effective when given together and combine well with chemotherapy. Other novel agents under study include bispecific chimeric antibody constructs and chimeric antigen receptor T-cells (CAR-T). Here we review the data supporting novel therapies and immunotherapies for R/R HL.", "substances": ["Immunoconjugates", "Brentuximab Vedotin"]}, {"pmid": "33889927", "year": "2021", "title": "How I incorporate novel agents into the treatment of classical Hodgkin lymphoma.", "summary": "The introduction of targeted immunotherapies specifically, brentuximab vedotin (BV) and programmed death-1 (PD-1)-blocking antibodies (nivolumab and pembrolizumab), has reshaped the therapeutic landscape of classical Hodgkin lymphoma (cHL) in the past decade. Targeting specific biologic features of cHL, these novel agents have expanded treatment options for patients with multiply R/R cHL and have increasingly been studied at earlier points in a patient's disease course. With the plethora of studies evaluating BV and PD-1 blockade as part of cHL therapy, often in nonrandomized, controlled studies, more questions than answers have arisen about how to optimally integrate these drugs into clinical practice. In this article, we use a case-based format to offer practical guidance on how we incorporate BV and anti-PD-1 antibodies into the management of cHL and review the data supporting those recommendations.", "substances": ["Antibodies, Monoclonal, Humanized", "Antineoplastic Agents, Immunological", "Brentuximab Vedotin", "pembrolizumab"]}, {"pmid": "33602008", "year": "2021", "title": "Future directions in Hodgkin lymphoma: checkpoint inhibitors and beyond.", "summary": "Classic Hodgkin lymphoma (cHL) is curable with chemotherapy but relapses occur in approximately 30% of cases. Novel agents, including brentuximb vedotin (BV) and programmed cell death-1 (PD-1) inhibitors, alone or in combination with chemotherapy, have encouraging activity in newly diagnosed and relapsed/refractory cHL, confirming that the use of agents that target tumor cells or the tumor microenvironment are promising strategies to improve patient outcomes. The field of immunotherapy in cHL is now moving toward combinations of PD-1 inhibitors with other immunological agents such as cytotoxic T- lymphocyte associated protein-4 (CTLA-4) inhibitors, newer PD-1 inhibitors such as sintilimab, tislelizumab, avelumab and camrelizumab, bispecific antibodies such as AFM-13, cellular therapies using CD30 chimeric antigen T-cells (CD30.CART) and anti-CD25 antibody-drug conjugates such as camidanlumab tesirine (cami-T). Here we review early phase studies evaluating these approaches in the treatment of cHL.", "substances": ["Antibodies, Monoclonal, Humanized", "Immunoconjugates", "Ki-1 Antigen", "tislelizumab"]}, {"pmid": "26482577", "year": "2016", "title": "Systematic review and meta-analysis on the prognostic value  of complete remission status at FDG-PET in Hodgkin lymphoma  after completion of first-line therapy.", "summary": "This study aimed to systematically review and meta-analyze the prognostic value of complete remission status at 18F-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) in Hodgkin lymphoma after completion of first-line therapy. A systematic literature search was performed in the MEDLINE database for suitable original articles. The included studies were methodologically assessed using the Quality In Prognosis Studies tool. The proportion of patients who developed disease relapse during follow-up, among those patients who were in complete remission according to FDG-PET at the completion of first-line therapy, was calculated for each included study. Heterogeneity in disease relapse proportions across individual studies was assessed using the I2 statistic, with heterogeneity regarded present if I2<50 %. Weighted summary disease relapse proportion was calculated using either a random effects model (if I2>50) or a fixed effects model (if I2\u226450). Ten studies comprising a total number of 1137 Hodgkin lymphoma patients with complete remission status according to FDG-PET after completion of first-line therapy were included. Overall methodological quality of included studies was reasonably good. The disease relapse rate during follow-up among all patients with complete remission status at end-of-treatment FDG-PET ranged from 0 to 26.7 %, with a weighted summary proportion of 7.5 % (95 % confidence interval 3.9\u201313.8 %) using the random effects model (I2=88.3 %). In conclusion, although the disease relapse rate in Hodgkin lymphoma patients who achieve an FDG-PET-based complete remission after first-line therapy is low from an absolute point of view, it is actually high when considering the generally favorable outcome of Hodgkin lymphoma.", "substances": ["Fluorodeoxyglucose F18"]}, {"pmid": "34105815", "year": "2021", "title": "Personalized medicine for Hodgkin lymphoma: Mitigating toxicity while preserving cure.", "summary": "The treatment of classical Hodgkin lymphoma in young patients is one of the success stories of modern medicine. The use of risk- and response-adapted approaches to guide treatment decisions has led to impressive cure rates while reducing the long-term toxicity associated with more intensive therapies. Tissue biomarkers have not yet proven more effective than clinical characteristics for risk stratification of patients at presentation, but functional imaging features such as metabolic tumor volume may be used to predict response, if early observations can be validated. The success of treatment in younger patients has unfortunately not been mirrored in those over 60, where complex decision-making is often required, with a paucity of data from clinical trials. The use of PD1 blocking antibodies and brentuximab vedotin in this cohort, either alone or in combination with chemotherapy, may provide attractive options. The incorporation of frailty assessment, quality-of-life outcomes, and specialist geriatric input is also important to ensure the best outcomes for this diverse group.", "substances": ["Biomarkers, Tumor", "Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors", "Neoplasm Proteins", "PDCD1 protein, human", "Programmed Cell Death 1 Receptor", "Brentuximab Vedotin"]}, {"pmid": "33205352", "year": "2022", "title": "Stem Cell as Vehicles of Antibody in Treatment of Lymphoma: a Novel and Potential Targeted Therapy.", "summary": "Lymphoma is a heterogeneous malignancy and its incidence is increasing in the past decades all over the world. Although more than half of lymphoma patients achieve complete or partial remission from the standard first-line ABVD or R-CHOP based therapy, patients who fail to respond to these regimens will give rise to relapsed or refractory (R/R) lymphoma and may lead to a worse prognosis. Developing novel agents is important for R/R lymphoma. Based on the homing ability and being genetically modified easily, stem cells are usually used as vehicles in cell-based anti-tumor therapy, which can not only retain their own biological characteristics, but also make anti-tumor agents secrete constantly in tumor environment, to eventually kill the tumor cells more effectively. In this review, we will briefly introduce the properties of antibody therapy carried by stem cells, especially the hopes and hurdles of stem cell-mediated antibody secretion in the treatment of lymphoma.", "substances": ["Bleomycin", "Vinblastine", "Dacarbazine", "Doxorubicin"]}, {"pmid": "34182468", "year": "2021", "title": "Paraneoplastic Intrahepatic Cholestasis in Supradiaphragmatic Classical Hodgkin Lymphoma Successfully Treated With Brentuximab Vedotin: A Case Report and Review of the Literature.", "summary": "VBDS and intrahepatic cholestasis are rare and potentially fatal complications of cHL. Their prompt recognition and appropriate treatment can dramatically affect cHL patients' outcome. BV, used at a reduced dose as a bridging therapy, should be considered as a high-priority treatment plan in these challenging cases.", "substances": ["Bleomycin", "Vinblastine", "Dacarbazine", "Brentuximab Vedotin", "Doxorubicin"]}, {"pmid": "33755826", "year": "2022", "title": "Novel Therapies in the Treatment of Hodgkin Lymphoma.", "summary": "Patients with Hodgkin lymphoma (HL) can achieve excellent response and survival rates following frontline combination chemo- and radiation therapy. However, about 10-15% of patients will experience disease relapse which is associated with poor outcomes. Recent breakthroughs in understanding the mechanisms of oncogenicity and interactions within the tumor microenvironment have resulted in development of novel drugs for treatment of patients with HL. Utilizing this information, treatment of newly diagnosed and relapsed HL has become a rapidly evolving field with multiple clinical trials evaluating novel treatment approaches incorporating targeted immunotherapy. In the frontline setting, the use of novel drugs may allow for de-escalation of therapy to avoid long-term complications associated with bleomycin and consolidation radiation therapy. Patients with early-stage, non-bulky disease are candidates for omitting radiation therapy using treatment combinations that include upfront use of brentuximab vedotin or nivolumab. In patients with advanced disease, the addition of brentuximab vedotin to a chemotherapy backbone is currently the standard of care in our practice, particularly in patients with a contraindication for receiving bleomycin. Future investigations in patients with advanced-stage HL will focus on establishing a new standard of care by comparing brentuximab vedotin and nivolumab in combination with chemotherapy (BV-AVD vs. N-AVD) and decreasing the risk of relapse by exploring consolidation therapy in patients with high-risk disease. In patients who have relapsed or are refractory to first-line therapy, salvage treatment has incorporated brentuximab vedotin or PD-1 checkpoint inhibitors to improve response rates of cytotoxic chemotherapy thereby improving the probability of a successful stem cell transplant. Post-transplant consolidation with brentuximab is currently standard of care in patients with high-risk disease. Patients who relapse following autologous stem cell transplant now have an expanded armamentarium of chemo- and immunotherapy options. However, the challenge is to determine the sequence of therapy after prior brentuximab or checkpoint inhibitor exposure.", "substances": ["Antibodies, Monoclonal, Humanized", "Receptors, Chimeric Antigen", "Nivolumab", "Brentuximab Vedotin", "pembrolizumab"]}, {"pmid": "33160934", "year": "2021", "title": "Programmed Cell Death-One Inhibition Therapy in Classical Hodgkin Lymphoma.", "summary": "The majority of patients with classical Hodgkin lymphoma (cHL) may be cured, but for patients with relapsed or refractory (R/R) cHL, the prognosis is unfavorable. Immune dysfunction is a significant contributor of relapse and a hallmark of cHL; in particular, the immune system is unable to eradicate lymphoma cells that overexpress immune checkpoint proteins. The blocking of this mechanism used by lymphoma cells to evade the immune system has resulted in clinical benefits. Use of checkpoint inhibitors (CPIs) in R/R cHL is associated with high response rates and an acceptable adverse effects profile. There is growing interest in combining chemotherapy with CPIs in frontline therapy of cHL treatment to improve relapse rates without significant additive toxicity. In this review, we discuss the current evidence supporting CPI use in R/R cHL and maintenance therapy. We present emerging CPI data in frontline adult cHL and assess its role in the elderly. In addition, we discuss critical immune-related toxicities and their management, and elaborate on the challenges of monitoring response and minimal residual disease as tools for maximizing efficacy by limiting toxicity.", "substances": ["Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors", "PDCD1 protein, human", "Programmed Cell Death 1 Receptor"]}, {"pmid": "34497197", "year": "2021", "title": "[Initial treatment strategy for classical Hodgkin lymphoma in adults].", "summary": "Four cycles of ABVD followed by 30 Gy IFRT (ISRT) is a standard regimen, as an initial treatment, for patients with early-stage classical Hodgkin lymphoma (cHL), whereas 2 cycles of ABVD followed by 20 Gy IFRT (ISRT) is an alternative regimen for those with favorable early-stage cHL. For patients with unfavorable early-stage cHL including bulky disease, local radiotherapy can be safely omitted if negative findings on interim PET are obtained after 2 cycles of escalated BEACOPP plus 2 cycles of ABVD. ABVD (6/8 cycles) or brentuximab vedotin (BV) with concurrent AVD (6 cycles) is a standard regimen for patients with advanced-stage cHL. For elderly cHL patients (60 years of age or older) and multiple comorbidities, the risk of treatment-related adverse events is higher, which can potentially lead to poor outcomes. BV with sequential AVD therapy, which is a unique combination strategy, has been developed for elderly cHL patients. The combination of anti-PD-1 antibodies with AVD therapies is currently being evaluated in some clinical trials. This review includes current evidence that primarily focuses on randomized clinical trials for newly diagnosed adult cHL patients and management points in clinical practice for those patients.", "substances": ["Bleomycin", "Vinblastine", "Dacarbazine", "Doxorubicin"]}, {"pmid": "25772232", "year": "2015", "title": "Brentuximab vedotin in relapsed/refractory Hodgkin lymphoma post-autologous transplant: meta-analysis versus historical data.", "summary": "Indirect comparisons against a heterogeneous historical sample population naturally limit our ability to draw comparisons, yet the results from this quantitative meta-analysis suggest that the antitumor activity of brentuximab vedotin may exceed that of other therapies used to treat patients with relapsed/refractory Hodgkin lymphoma post-ASCT.", "substances": ["Antineoplastic Agents", "Immunoconjugates", "Brentuximab Vedotin"]}, {"pmid": "32677451", "year": "2021", "title": "Brentuximab vedotin and its use in the treatment of advanced Hodgkin's lymphoma.", "summary": "Brentuximab vedotin (BV), a CD30-directed antibody-drug conjugate, is US FDA approved for treatment of classic Hodgkin lymphoma (cHL) after progression or relapse of at least two prior lines of chemotherapy or autologous stem cell transplantation, as consolidation therapy after autologous stem cell transplantation for high-risk patients and as a front-line therapy for previously untreated, advanced-stage cHL in combination with chemotherapy. BV is a well-tolerated treatment in previously heavily pretreated relapsed/refractory cHL and in treatment-naive patients. BV use, in combination with other antineoplastic agents for cHL, is under investigation in multiple prospective clinical trials.", "substances": ["Antineoplastic Agents, Immunological", "Biomarkers, Tumor", "Ki-1 Antigen", "Brentuximab Vedotin"]}, {"pmid": "32921109", "year": "2021", "title": "Composite lymphoma of cervical lymph nodes with classical Hodgkin lymphoma and diffuse large B cell lymphoma: a case report and literature review.", "summary": "Composite lymphoma (CL) is a clinically rare entity, with unknown pathogenic mechanisms. Its diagnosis is quite difficult, and there is currently no proven treatment. In this article, we report a 64-year-old male patient presenting with swelling and mild pain in the bilateral cervical lymph nodes. Radiology revealed lesions only involved the neck. Histological examination showed that the tumor tissue had two components: mixed cellularity classical Hodgkin lymphoma (CHL-MC) and diffuse large B cell lymphoma (DLBCL). The final diagnosis was CL in the bilateral cervical lymph nodes composed of CHL-MC and DLBCL stage IA. The patient received six cycles of rituximab plus cyclophosphamide, pirubicin, vincristine, and prednisone (R-CHOP) and two cycles of rituximab maintenance therapy, and complete response (CR) was achieved. No progression was found during the 9 months of follow-up. We conducted a literature review of 28 cases of CL with CHL and DLBCL. The demography of the disease, the location of the disease involved, the subtype of CHL, the Epstein-Barr virus infection, treatment and survival were described in detail. In the discussion section, we analyzed the definition, pathogenesis, diagnosis, treatment and prognosis of CL. We hope that through case reports and literature review, we can improve the understanding of CL and optimize its treatment.", "substances": ["Prednisone"]}, {"pmid": "32462248", "year": "2020", "title": "[Checkpoint inhibitors in Hodgkin lymphoma].", "summary": "In 60-70% of patients with chemotherapy-refractory cHL, PD\u20111 blockade results in responses. Overall survival is excellent and a\u00a0small number of patients achieve persistent response. Thus, the use of anti-PD\u20111 monoclonal antibodies has become an important treatment approach in relapsed cHL in line with the label. The results of first-line therapy are still preliminary; initial phase\u00a0II studies using nivolumab in combination with doxorubicin (=adriamycin), vinblastin and dacarbazin (AVD) in early unfavorable or advanced stages showed response rates of up to 90%. Thus, implementing immunomodulatory approaches using PD 1\u2011blockade have resulted in a\u00a0significant reduction of chemotherapy. This might represent a\u00a0paradigm shift in the therapy of cHL.", "substances": ["Antibodies, Monoclonal", "Antineoplastic Agents, Immunological", "Programmed Cell Death 1 Receptor", "Nivolumab", "Doxorubicin"]}, {"pmid": "32052094", "year": "2020", "title": "Microbial L-asparaginase: purification, characterization and applications.", "summary": "L-asparaginase (E.C.3.5.1.1) is an important enzyme that has been purified and characterized for over decades to study and evaluate its anti-carcinogenic activity against different lymphoproliferative disorders such as acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) and Hodgkin's lymphoma. The ability of the enzyme to convert L-asparagine into aspartic acid and ammonia is the reason behind its anti-cancerous activity. Apart from its medicinal uses, it is widely used in food industry to tackle acrylamide, a probable human carcinogen and, production in carbohydrate-rich foods cooked at high temperatures. There are variety of organisms including microorganisms such as bacteria, fungi, algae, and plants that produce L-asparaginase. The enzyme obtained from different microbial and plant sources have different physiochemical properties and kinetic parameters. L-asparaginases have an optimum pH range between 6 and 10 and an optimum temperature between 37 and 85\u00a0\u00b0C. This article has reviewed the lowest molecular mass for L-asparaginase in Yersinia pseudotuberculosis Q66CJ2 which is 36.27\u00a0kDa, while the highest for Pseudomonas otitidis which has a molecular mass of 205\u2009\u00b1\u20093\u00a0kDa. This review is an attempt to summarize most of the available sources, their phylogenetic relationships, purification methods, data regarding different physiochemical and kinetic properties of L-asparaginase.", "substances": ["Aspartic Acid", "Asparagine", "Ammonia", "Asparaginase"]}, {"pmid": "32116068", "year": "2021", "title": "Identifying and treating candidates for checkpoint inhibitor therapies in multiple myeloma and lymphoma.", "summary": "<b>Introduction</b>: One of the hallmarks of cancerogenesis is the ability of tumor cells to evade the immune system. They can achieve it by abusing inhibitory immune checkpoint pathways, which, under normal circumstances, maintain peripheral tolerance during infection. Immune checkpoint inhibitors, especially anti-PD-1/PD-L1 monoclonal antibodies, currently represent a widely discussed treatment option not only in solid oncology, but in hematology-oncology as well.<b>Areas covered</b>: The manuscript is focused on clinical research concerning PD-1/PD-L1 blockade in lymphoma and multiple myeloma in order to identify the patients who would profit the most from this treatment modality. The authors reviewed articles on the topic on PubMed and relevant clinical trials on clinicaltrials.gov before October 2019.<b>Expert opinion</b>: So far, nivolumab and pembrolizumab have been approved for treating patients with relapsed/refractory classical Hodgkin lymphoma and primary mediastinal B cell lymphoma. Nevertheless, monotherapy alone is not curative and a combinational approach is needed. Modern treatment strategies and combinations are comprehensively summarized in this manuscript. There is no approved immune checkpoint inhibitor for the multiple myeloma indication. Although the combination of PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors with immunomodulatory agents initially seemed promising, unexpected immune related toxicities have stopped any further development. Novel strategies and more potent combinations in myeloma and lymphoma are further discussed in the manuscript.", "substances": ["Antibodies, Monoclonal, Humanized", "Antineoplastic Agents, Immunological", "B7-H1 Antigen", "CD274 protein, human", "Neoplasm Proteins", "PDCD1 protein, human", "Programmed Cell Death 1 Receptor", "Nivolumab", "pembrolizumab"]}, {"pmid": "32109715", "year": "2020", "title": "Contemporary treatment options for a classical disease: Advanced Hodgkin lymphoma.", "summary": "Advanced classical Hodgkin lymphoma (cHL) is a rare lymphoid disease characterized by the presence of Hodgkin and Reed-Sternberg (HRS) cells. Each year, cHL accounts for 0.5% of all new cancer diagnoses and about 80% are diagnosed with advanced stage disease. Given the significant improvement in cure rates, the focus of treatment has shifted towards minimization of acute and long-term toxicities. PET-adapted strategies have largely been adopted as standard of care in the United States in an attempt to balance toxicities with adequate lymphoma control. However, the appropriate upfront chemotherapy regimen (ABVD versus eBEACOPP) remains controversial.", "substances": ["Bleomycin", "Procarbazine", "Vincristine", "Vinblastine", "Etoposide", "Dacarbazine", "Doxorubicin", "Cyclophosphamide", "Prednisone"]}, {"pmid": "33162522", "year": "2021", "title": "[Treatment strategy for newly diagnosed classical Hodgkin lymphoma: current achievements using interim PET-guided therapy].", "summary": "Interim positron emission tomography (iPET-2)-guided therapy following two cycles of ABVD chemotherapy has been developed for newly diagnosed classical Hodgkin lymphoma (cHL) patients in several prospective trials. In localized-stage cHL, radiotherapy cannot be omitted, even in iPET-negative patients after two or three cycles of ABVD, whereas two cycles of escalated BEACOPP regimens followed by involved nodular radiotherapy (30 Gy) is a useful treatment option for iPET-2 positive patients after two cycles of ABVD. In advanced-stage cHL, approximately 20% of cases were iPET-2 positive, and the switch to BEACOPP-based regimens was reported as a useful treatment option, with 3-year progression-free survival of approximately 60-65%, in iPET-2-positive patients in three clinical trials. Furthermore, the switch to AVD (omission of bleomycin after two cycles of ABVD) is a reasonable treatment option in iPET-2-negative patients, particularly those at risk for bleomycin lung toxicity in advanced-stage cHL. This review summarizes the current evidence regarding interim PET-guided therapy for newly diagnosed cHL patients.", "substances": ["Bleomycin", "Vinblastine", "Dacarbazine", "Doxorubicin", "Prednisone"]}, {"pmid": "31756590", "year": "2020", "title": "Primary and acquired resistance mechanisms to immune checkpoint inhibition in Hodgkin lymphoma.", "summary": "Hodgkin lymphoma is a B cell derived malignancy characterized by a low number of tumor cells within an environment consisting of inflammatory cells. Recently, immune checkpoint blockade targeting the PD-1-PD-L1 axis has shown to be a great success in relapsed and refractory Hodgkin lymphoma patients. However, complete responses are scarce and median progression-free survival is limited to around 11-15\u202fmonths. Efficiency of PD-1 blockade in HL might be dependent on CD4+ T cells, but also tumor associated macrophages (TAMs) and NK cells are implicated. The aim of this review is to highlight currently known prominent immune evasion strategies and discuss their possible contribution to primary or acquired resistance to immune checkpoint blockade in Hodgkin lymphoma. These include T cell dependent mechanisms such as shaping of the inflammatory infiltrate, lack of presentation of antigens and neoantigens and production of molecules involved in suppression of T cell functionality such as other immune checkpoints, indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase and adenosine. Moreover, the role of NK cells and TAMs in efficient PD-1 blockade will be discussed. Targeting these mechanisms in parallel to PD-1 may potentially increase efficiency of PD-1 blockade therapy.", "substances": ["Programmed Cell Death 1 Receptor"]}, {"pmid": "31432732", "year": "2020", "title": "An evaluation of brentuximab vedotin as a treatment option for stage III/IV Hodgkin lymphoma.", "summary": "<b>Introduction</b>: Outcomes of patients with classical Hodgkin lymphoma are excellent, and the intent of frontline therapy for even advanced-stage disease has been curative. This review summarizes the role of brentuximab vedotin in the upfront treatment of advanced stage classical Hodgkin lymphoma in the context of reducing therapy-related toxicity without compromising the high cure rate. <b>Areas covered</b>: Strategies to reduce bleomycin-induced lung toxicity include a response-adapted approach investigated in the RATHL study and a replacement of bleomycin with brentuximab vedotin in frontline chemotherapy regimens. In both studies, omission of bleomycin in the non-standard arms decreased the rate of pulmonary toxicity while maintaining high progression-free survival and overall survival rates. <b>Expert opinion</b>: The approval of A+AVD in North America offers a new bleomycin-free regimen for the treatment of advanced-stage HL, but it must be balanced against a risk-adapted approach. Recently presented subset analyses raise a question about which patients benefit most from this therapy.", "substances": ["Antineoplastic Agents, Immunological", "Immunotoxins", "Bleomycin", "Vinblastine", "Dacarbazine", "Brentuximab Vedotin", "Doxorubicin"]}, {"pmid": "30895564", "year": "2020", "title": "Pembrolizumab for Treating Relapsed or Refractory Classical Hodgkin Lymphoma: An Evidence Review Group Perspective of a NICE Single Technology Appraisal.", "summary": "As part of its Single Technology Appraisal (STA) process, the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) invited the manufacturer (Merck Sharp & Dohme; MSD) of pembrolizumab (Keytruda<sup>\u00ae</sup>) to submit evidence of its clinical and cost effectiveness for the treatment of patients with relapsed or refractory classical Hodgkin lymphoma (RRcHL) who did not respond to treatment with brentuximab vedotin. Kleijnen Systematic Reviews Ltd, in collaboration with Maastricht University Medical Centre+, was commissioned to act as the independent Evidence Review Group (ERG). The ERG produced a detailed review of the evidence for the clinical and cost effectiveness of the technology, based on the company's submission to NICE. According to the NICE scope, pembrolizumab was compared with single or combination chemotherapy. Comparisons were undertaken in two populations: patients who did and did not receive prior autologous stem cell transplant (autoSCT; populations 1 and 2, respectively). Despite it having been recommended by NICE in population 1 at the time the ERG received the company submission, nivolumab was not included as a comparator. No studies directly comparing pembrolizumab and its comparators were identified. One ongoing, single-arm study of the efficacy and safety of pembrolizumab (KEYNOTE-087) and one comparative observational study (Cheah et al., 2016) were used to inform the comparative effectiveness of pembrolizumab and standard of care (SoC), using indirect comparisons in both populations. Almost all analyses showed significant PFS and overall response rate benefits for pembrolizumab versus SoC, but due to being based on indirect comparison, were likely to contain systematic error. The economic evaluation therefore suffered from substantial uncertainty in any estimates of cost effectiveness. Furthermore, there was a lack of evidence on the uptake and timing of allogeneic stem cell transplant, and alternative assumptions had a significant impact on cost effectiveness. Immature survival data from KEYNOTE-087 exacerbated this issue and necessitated the use of alternative data sources for longer-term extrapolation of survival. Some issues identified in the company's analyses were amended by the ERG. The revised ERG deterministic base-case incremental cost-effectiveness ratios based on the company's second Appraisal Consultation Document response for pembrolizumab versus SoC (with a commercial access agreement) for populations 1 and 2 were \u00a354,325 and \u00a362,527 per quality-adjusted life-year gained, respectively. There was substantial uncertainty around these ICERs, especially in population 2. NICE did not recommend pembrolizumab as an option for treating RRcHL in population 1, but recommended pembrolizumab for use within the Cancer Drugs Fund in population 2.", "substances": ["Antibodies, Monoclonal, Humanized", "Antineoplastic Agents, Immunological", "pembrolizumab"]}, {"pmid": "24360817", "year": "2014", "title": "Gonadotropin-releasing hormone analogues for the prevention of chemotherapy-induced premature ovarian failure in cancer women: systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized trials.", "summary": "Our pooled analysis of randomized studies shows that the temporary ovarian suppression induced by GnRHa significantly reduces the risk of chemotherapy-induced POF in young cancer patients.", "substances": ["Antineoplastic Agents", "Gonadotropin-Releasing Hormone", "LHRH, Ala(6)-Gly(10)-ethylamide-"]}, {"pmid": "31694167", "year": "2020", "title": "Immune and Inflammatory Cells of the Tumor Microenvironment Represent Novel Therapeutic Targets in Classical Hodgkin Lymphoma.", "summary": "Classical Hodgkin Lymphoma (cHL) is a B-cell malignancy that, typically, responds well to standard therapies. However, patients who relapse after standard regimens or are refractory to induction therapy have a dismal outcome. The implementation of novel therapies such as the anti-CD30 monoclonal antibody Brentuximab Vedotin and immune checkpoint inhibitors has provided curative options for many of these patients. Nonetheless, responses are rarely durable, emphasizing the need for new agents. cHL is characterized by a unique microenvironment in which cellular and humoral components interact to promote tumor survival and dissemination. Knowledge of the complex composition of cHL microenvironment is constantly evolving; in particular, there is growing interest in certain cell subsets such as tumor-associated macrophages, myeloid-derived suppressor cells and neutrophils, all of which have a relevant role in the pathogenesis of the disease. The unique biology of the cHL microenvironment has provided opportunities to develop new drugs, many of which are currently being tested in preclinical and clinical settings. In this review, we will summarize novel insights in the crosstalk between tumor cells and non-malignant inflammatory cells. In addition, we will discuss the relevance of tumor-microenvironment interactions as potential therapeutic targets.", "substances": ["Antineoplastic Agents, Immunological"]}, {"pmid": "31166030", "year": "2020", "title": "FDA's and EMA's approval of brentuximab vedotin for advanced Hodgkin lymphoma: Another player in the town?", "summary": "ECHELON-1 study is a randomized open-labeled controlled trial investigating whether addition of brentuximab vedotin to chemotherapy offers benefit over the standard chemotherapy regimen in advanced Hodgkin lymphoma. After a median follow-up of 24.6\u00a0months, it has met its primary endpoint the reduction of modified progression-free survival being 23 percent. However, the beneficial effects have not been seen across all subgroups leading to further questions. The main aim of this review is to tackle these questions to provide the reader with in-depth insight of pros and cons of this novel, promising but ultimately controversial regimen.", "substances": ["Antineoplastic Agents, Immunological", "Brentuximab Vedotin"]}, {"pmid": "31084775", "year": "2019", "title": "Response-Adapted Treatment Strategies in Hodgkin Lymphoma Using PET Imaging.", "summary": "Hodgkin lymphoma, a B-cell malignancy, is most common in patients younger than 55 years. Between 70% and 90% are cured with standard approaches. The high cure rate and long-term survival resulted in a need to minimize therapy toxicity. Response-adapted approaches have been developed to de-escalate therapy in those likely to be cured and intensifying therapy in those not responding to initial treatment. FDG-PET after chemotherapy is highly predictive of outcome. Thus, FDG-PET has been incorporated into response-adapted treatments. Use of FDG-PET to guide treatment in Hodgkin lymphoma has been recommended. We summarize literature and discuss challenges and future directions.", "substances": ["Antineoplastic Agents", "Radiopharmaceuticals", "Fluorodeoxyglucose F18"]}, {"pmid": "31313098", "year": "2019", "title": "Camrelizumab: First Global Approval.", "summary": "Camrelizumab (AiRuiKa\u2122), a programmed cell death 1 (PD-1) inhibitor being developed by Jiangsu Hengrui Medicine Co. Ltd, recently received conditional approval in China for the treatment of relapsed or refractory classical Hodgkin lymphoma. The drug is also being investigated as a treatment for various other malignancies, including B cell lymphoma, oesophageal squamous cell carcinoma, gastric/gastroesophageal junction cancer, hepatocellular carcinoma, nasopharyngeal cancer and non-squamous, non-small cell lung cancer. This article summarizes the milestones in the development of camrelizumab leading to this first approval for classical Hodgkin lymphoma.", "substances": ["Antibodies, Monoclonal, Humanized", "Antineoplastic Agents", "PDCD1 protein, human", "Programmed Cell Death 1 Receptor", "camrelizumab"]}, {"pmid": "31070022", "year": "2020", "title": "Optimizing checkpoint inhibitors therapy for relapsed or progressive classic Hodgkin lymphoma by multiplex immunohistochemistry of the tumor microenvironment.", "summary": "Immune checkpoint-blocking antibodies have therapeutic activity against relapsed or progressive classic Hodgkin lymphoma (cHL), but Hodgkin Reed-Sternberg cells can develop resistance to this therapy via multiple mechanisms. To improve the efficacy of immune checkpoint blockade, we need a more precise understanding of the immune escape mechanisms active in individual cHL patients, and this requires a detailed characterization of immune cell populations in the tumor microenvironment. These cell-cell interactions can now be studied by multiplex immunohistochemistry coupled to digital image analysis. This method should allow the identification of actionable target molecules mediating resistance to immune checkpoint inhibitors in individual cHL patients, thereby favoring the implementation of personalized therapies.", "substances": ["Antibodies, Monoclonal"]}, {"pmid": "31142709", "year": "2019", "title": "[Acute sensory neuropathy associated with Hodgkin's lymphoma: a case study].", "summary": "The case of a 17-year-old man with Hodgkin's lymphoma who presented with paraneoplastic sensory neuropathy is presented. The patient visited our hospital because of acute progression of dysesthesiae in the bilateral face and extremities. He also developed an ataxic gait due to decreased deep sensation. Post-contrast T<sub>1</sub>-weighted MRI showed enhancement of both trigeminal nerves and the cauda equina. Cerebrospinal fluid examination was unremarkable. Intravenous immunoglobulin therapy and subsequent steroid pulse therapy did not improve his symptoms. Laboratory data showed an elevated serum soluble interleukin-2 receptor level. His chest X-ray and CT showed enlarged lymph nodes in the mediastinum, and the histopathologic examination of a lymph node biopsy specimen showed classical Hodgkin's lymphoma. He was treated with chemotherapy. His symptoms of neuropathy improved promptly while the lymphoma was being successfully treated, and he was able to walk with a cane. The present case was characterized by paraneoplastic sensory neuropathy as the initial clinical feature in association with Hodgkin's lymphoma. It is necessary to consider a paraneoplastic neurological syndrome even in a young patient with acute/subacute sensory neuropathy. Paraneoplastic sensory neuropathy associated with Hodgkin's lymphoma could be expected to improve with oncotherapy, and examination of the malignancy and early treatment are important.", "substances": ["Bleomycin", "Vinblastine", "Dacarbazine", "Doxorubicin"]}, {"pmid": "23948348", "year": "2013", "title": "Effect of initial treatment strategy on survival of patients with advanced-stage Hodgkin's lymphoma: a systematic review and network meta-analysis.", "summary": "Six cycles of BEACOPPescalated significantly improves overall survival compared with ABVD and other regimens, and thus we recommend this treatment strategy as standard of care for patients with access to the appropriate supportive care.", "substances": ["Bleomycin", "Procarbazine", "Vincristine", "Vinblastine", "Etoposide", "Dacarbazine", "Doxorubicin", "Cyclophosphamide", "Prednisone"]}, {"pmid": "30742278", "year": "2019", "title": "Sintilimab: First Global Approval.", "summary": "Sintilimab (Tyvyt<sup>\u00ae</sup>) is a fully human IgG4 monoclonal antibody that binds to programmed cell death receptor-1 (PD-1), thereby blocking the interaction of PD-1 with its ligands (PD-L1 and PL-L2) and consequently helping to restore the endogenous antitumour T-cell response. It has been co-developed by Innovent Biologics and Eli Lilly and Company, and was recently approved in China for the treatment of classical Hodgkin's lymphoma in patients who have relapsed or are refractory after\u2009\u2265\u20092 lines of systemic chemotherapy. Sintilimab is undergoing phase I, II and III development for use in various solid tumours, including non-small cell lung cancer and oesophageal cancer, in China. Phase I/II development of sintilimab for use in solid tumours is underway in the USA, with the US FDA accepting an Investigational New Drug application for sintilimab in January 2018. This article summarizes the milestones in the development of sintilimab leading to this first approval for the treatment of classical Hodgkin's lymphoma in patients who have relapsed or are refractory after\u2009\u2265\u20092 lines of systemic chemotherapy.", "substances": ["Antibodies, Monoclonal, Humanized", "Antineoplastic Agents", "Programmed Cell Death 1 Receptor", "sintilimab"]}, {"pmid": "30407626", "year": "2019", "title": "The treatment of older Hodgkin lymphoma patients.", "summary": "The outcome of patients with Hodgkin lymphoma (HL) has dramatically improved over the past decades and continues to improve with the development of novel targeted therapies, such as the immunoconjugate brentuximab vedotin and the checkpoint inhibitors nivolumab and pembrolizumab. Moreover, with the use of response-adapted strategies using positron-emission-tomography (PET), the overall intensity of treatment for most patients can be reduced, resulting in less acute and late toxicity. However, these advances are mainly restricted to younger patients, as advances in patients above the age of 60\u00a0years ('older' patients) have been much less pronounced. Furthermore, about one third of all HL patients are among the older population, but only 5-10% of the patients treated in current HL clinical trials are \u226560\u00a0years old. HL in older patients is characterized by aggressive disease and unfavourable prognostic features as B symptoms and predominance of advanced stages. In addition, tolerance to curative chemotherapy is drastically reduced in older patients resulting in excessive toxicity and insufficient treatment due to therapy delays and dose reductions. Therefore, there is a significant unmet medical need in older HL patients for less toxic and effective therapies, and an important gap of knowledge concerning this growing population of patients. Recent advances on epidemiology, characteristics and treatment of older HL patients will be summarized in this article.", "substances": ["Antibodies, Monoclonal, Humanized", "Immunoconjugates", "Brentuximab Vedotin", "pembrolizumab"]}, {"pmid": "30082490", "year": "2020", "title": "Strategies for Recognizing and Managing Immune-Mediated Adverse Events in the Treatment of Hodgkin Lymphoma with Checkpoint Inhibitors.", "summary": "The programmed death-1 (PD-1) receptor checkpoint inhibitors nivolumab and pembrolizumab represent an important therapeutic advance in the treatment of relapsed or refractory classical Hodgkin lymphoma (cHL). Clinical trials have shown substantial therapeutic activity and an acceptable safety profile in heavily pretreated patients, resulting in U.S. Food and Drug Administration approval of nivolumab for the treatment of cHL that has relapsed or progressed after either autologous hematopoietic cell transplantation (auto-HCT) and brentuximab vedotin treatment or three or more lines of systemic therapy (including auto-HCT), and of pembrolizumab for adult or pediatric patients with refractory cHL or cHL that has relapsed after three or more prior therapies. Mechanistically, anti-PD-1 therapy prevents inhibitory signaling through PD-1 receptors on T cells, thereby releasing a 'block' to antitumor T-cell responses. However, this disinhibition can also lead to inappropriate T-cell activation and responses against healthy tissues, resulting in immune-mediated adverse events (IMAEs) that affect a number of organ systems. The skin, gastrointestinal, hepatic, and endocrine systems are most commonly involved, typically resulting in rash, colitis, abnormal liver enzyme levels, and thyroiditis, respectively. Notably, pneumonitis is a potentially fatal complication of checkpoint inhibitor immunotherapy. Hematologic oncologists who treat cHL with PD-1 immune checkpoint inhibitors should monitor patients for IMAEs, as early recognition and treatment can rapidly reduce morbidity and mortality. This review focuses on IMAEs during the treatment of relapsed or refractory cHL with nivolumab and pembrolizumab. IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE: This article highlights the importance of monitoring for immune-mediated adverse events (IMAEs) in patients with Hodgkin lymphoma (HL) who receive anti-programmed death-1 (anti-PD-1) therapy, with particular attention given to the recognition and management of such events. The risk of individual IMAEs differs between patients with HL and those with solid tumors, as prior treatments may predispose certain organ systems to specific IMAEs. Accurate and prompt diagnosis of IMAEs is essential for optimal management, allowing PD-1 inhibitor therapy to be restarted in order to maintain disease control. Potential difficulties, such as distinguishing disease progression from pneumonitis, or colitis from diarrhea, are highlighted to raise clinical awareness.", "substances": ["Antibodies, Monoclonal"]}, {"pmid": "31168012", "year": "2019", "title": "[Hodgkin lymphoma].", "summary": "Hodgkin lymphoma is characterized by CD30 overexpression and downstream NF-\u03baB pathway activation in Hodgkin/Reed-Sternberg (H/RS) cells. Accordingly, CD30 and its aberrant downstream signaling have been investigated as potential treatment targets for the disease. Given that H/RS cells are surrounded by a variety of immune cells that constitute a unique inflammatory and immunoinhibitory microenvironment, efforts have also been made to treat the disease by reversing the abnormal tumor immune milieu. In recent years, a CD30 antibody-drug conjugate and immune checkpoint inhibitors have been approved for the treatment of Hodgkin lymphoma and have demonstrated remarkable treatment efficacy. These new agents have not only contributed to improved survival of patients refractory to conventional chemotherapy but have also enabled further understanding on the molecular pathogenesis of Hodgkin lymphoma in relation to the key signaling of the PD-1 and JAK/STAT pathways.", "substances": ["Immunoconjugates", "Ki-1 Antigen"]}, {"pmid": "30536386", "year": "2019", "title": "Novel therapeutic agents for relapsed classical Hodgkin lymphoma.", "summary": "Hodgkin Lymphoma (HL) is a B-cell lymphoproliferative disorder with an excellent prognosis for the majority of patients who are treated with multi-agent chemotherapy, with or without radiation. A subset of patient, however, does not respond to therapy or relapses after accomplishing an initial response. Their outcome is poor and new treatment strategies are urgently needed for this patient population. Recent advances in the understanding of the tumour biology of HL and its microenvironment have ushered a new era of targeted- and immuno-therapies with remarkable activity. Most notably, the antibody-drug conjugate brentuximab-vedotin, and the immune checkpoint blockers pembrolizumab and nivolumab have recently been approved by the US Food and Drug Administration and have transformed the therapeutic landscape of this disease. Other novel drug compounds are being investigated either as single agents or in combination and hold promise to further the field.", "substances": ["Antibodies, Monoclonal, Humanized", "Immunoconjugates", "Brentuximab Vedotin", "pembrolizumab"]}, {"pmid": "30504313", "year": "2019", "title": "Where does PD-1 blockade fit in HL therapy?", "summary": "Genetic alterations of the <i>PD-L1</i>/<i>PD-L2</i> locus on chromosome 9p24.1 are a defining biological feature of classical Hodgkin lymphoma (HL). The resulting programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-L1) expression on Hodgkin Reed-Sternberg cells as well as the PD-L1 expressed in the HL microenvironment result in an ineffective host antitumor immune response and make HL a ripe target for programmed cell death-1 (PD-1) blockade. Anti-PD-1 antibody monotherapy has been effective and well tolerated in patients with relapsed or refractory (rel/ref) HL, with the majority of patients experiencing an objective response (approximately two-thirds of patients) and a median duration of response of 16.6 months in the study with the longest follow-up. Based on these data, nivolumab and pembrolizumab were approved by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for the treatment of advanced rel/ref HL. Evidence has emerged that patients with HL benefit from continued PD-1 blockade beyond disease progression according to traditionally defined response criteria, and that the addition of, or switch to, chemotherapy after anti-PD-1 antibody failure can potentially re-induce clinical response. Subsequent studies have evaluated novel anti-PD-1-based combination regimens as well as the use of anti-PD-1 antibody therapy earlier in the course of a HL patient's therapy, including first salvage therapy for rel/ref disease (eg, nivolumab plus brentuximab vedotin) and even first-line treatment (eg, nivolumab added to doxorubicin, vinblastine, dacarbazine chemotherapy). The current role of PD-1 blockade in HL is as monotherapy in patients with advanced rel/ref disease, but the results of ongoing studies and the evolving treatment landscape in HL will determine the role of PD-1 blockade in the future.", "substances": ["Antibodies, Monoclonal, Humanized", "B7-H1 Antigen", "CD274 protein, human", "Neoplasm Proteins", "PDCD1 protein, human", "PDCD1LG2 protein, human", "Programmed Cell Death 1 Ligand 2 Protein", "Programmed Cell Death 1 Receptor", "Nivolumab", "pembrolizumab"]}, {"pmid": "30504311", "year": "2019", "title": "Risk-adapted therapy for advanced-stage Hodgkin lymphoma.", "summary": "More than 80% of patients with advanced-stage Hodgkin lymphoma are now cured with contemporary treatment approaches. The ongoing challenge is how to further improve outcomes by identifying both high-risk patients who may benefit from more intensive frontline therapy to reduce the risk of relapse as well as lower-risk patients who may do just as well with less intensive therapy. Numerous trials have used an interim positron emission tomography (PET) response-adapted approach to evaluate early escalation or deescalation of therapy for patients with a positive or negative interim PET scan, respectively. Recent trials have incorporated novel agents, including brentuximab vedotin (BV) and the immune checkpoint inhibitors, in the frontline setting. Based on results of the ECHELON-1 trial, the Food and Drug Administration approved BV in combination with adriamycin, vinblastine, and dacarbazine chemotherapy for stage III to IV Hodgkin lymphoma. Improved methods to assess higher risk at diagnosis using quantitative PET metrics, such as metabolic tumor volume and total lesion glycolysis, and incorporation of emerging biomarkers may further refine patient selection for more intensive upfront therapy. The ultimate goal is to achieve the highest level of efficacy for an individual patient while minimizing the short- and long-term toxicities.", "substances": ["Immunoconjugates", "Vinblastine", "Dacarbazine", "Brentuximab Vedotin", "Doxorubicin"]}, {"pmid": "30139285", "year": "2019", "title": "Determining the sequence of novel therapies in the treatment of relapsed Hodgkin's lymphoma.", "summary": "Hodgkin's lymphoma (HL) accounts for about 10% of all lymphomas in the U.S.A. Exceptional progress has been made in the treatment of HL with complete response (CR) rates up to 94% in limited stage and 88% in advanced stage disease with regimens such as adriamycin, bleomycin, vinblastine, and dacarbazine in the frontline setting. Nevertheless, up to 10% of patients with limited stage disease and 20-30% of those with advanced stage HL relapse. In the last decade, newer agents such as brentuximab vedotin (BV) and checkpoint inhibitors have been approved by the FDA for treatment of patients with relapsed or refractory HL. As these newer agents are increasingly incorporated in both the frontline and relapsed settings, their optimal sequence becomes challenging for clinicians. Areas covered: This review will discuss the evidence behind the approval of BV and checkpoint inhibitors in HL and the appropriate sequence for using them in relapsed HL. Expert commentary: The appropriate sequence of BV and/or checkpoint inhibitors in the relapsed setting depends on the regimen used in the frontline setting.", "substances": ["Immunoconjugates", "Bleomycin", "Vinblastine", "Dacarbazine", "Brentuximab Vedotin", "Doxorubicin"]}, {"pmid": "29999431", "year": "2019", "title": "Efficacy of antibody-drug conjugate brentuximab vedotin in treating Hodgkin's lymphoma.", "summary": "Hodgkin's lymphoma (HL) patients refractory to first-line therapy or relapsed after autologous stem cell transplantation have a dismal prognosis, and their treatment represents an unmet medical need. Brentuximab vedotin (BV) is a second-generation antibody-drug conjugate (ADC) constituted by an anti-CD30 antibody linked to the cytotoxic drug monomethyl auristatin E. The first administration of BV in relapsed and refractory HL patients in a phase I study showed an impressive antilymphoma activity and prompted development of the drug. Areas covered: This article reviews pharmaceutical characteristics of ADC and specific chemical features of BV related to mechanism of action and mechanism of resistance. Administration recommendation and main toxicities will also be described. Antilymphoma efficacy of BV alone and in combination with conventional chemotherapy and new compounds in different settings of HL patients will be examined. Expert opinion: BV seems to be an effective and safe option for treatment of HL patients. BV alone or in association with chemotherapy as salvage regimen or as bridge to autologous or allogeneic transplant showed encouraging results. Exploration of new drug combinations and new settings of treatment is warranted in order to reduce long-term therapy-related toxicities and ameliorate survival of poor prognosis patients.", "substances": ["Antineoplastic Agents", "Immunoconjugates", "Brentuximab Vedotin"]}, {"pmid": "30247261", "year": "2019", "title": "Immunotherapy of Hodgkin Lymphoma: Mobilizing the Patient's Immune Response.", "summary": "Classic Hodgkin lymphoma has a unique tumor composition in that there is a paucity of malignant cells present, and most of the tumor consists of normal immune and stromal cells. Despite the presence of an immune infiltrate within the tumor microenvironment, the malignant cells effectively evade the immune system and appear to utilize the presence of immune cells to promote the growth and survival of Hodgkin-Reed-Sternberg cells. Hodgkin-Reed-Sternberg cells evade immune detection because of overexpression of programmed death 1 ligands, PD-L1 and PD-L2, which suppress T-cell activation, and loss of expression of major histocompatibility complex molecules that prevent effective immune recognition. Recognition of these immune defects has led to clinical use of immune checkpoint blockade in classic Hodgkin lymphoma. Clinical trials using antibodies that block programmed death 1/PD-L1 signaling have shown remarkable responses to therapy and have led to the approval of nivolumab and pembrolizumab for use in patients with relapsed and refractory disease. Trials are currently testing immune checkpoint blockade in earlier lines of therapy.", "substances": ["Antibodies, Monoclonal", "Antineoplastic Agents, Immunological", "B7-H1 Antigen", "CD274 protein, human"]}, {"pmid": "29663523", "year": "2018", "title": "Malignant lymphoma in the HIV-positive patient.", "summary": "The introduction of combination antiretroviral therapy (cART) drastically improved performance status, immune function, and life expectancy of HIV-infected individuals. In addition, incidence of opportunistic infections and of AIDS-defining malignancies declined. Nevertheless, aggressive non-Hodgkin's lymphoma still remains the leading cause of AIDS-related deaths. The availability of cART, however, significantly improved the therapeutic options for HIV-positive patients with lymphomas. Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, Burkitt's lymphoma, or Hodgkin lymphoma has increasingly become curable diseases. In light of these favorable developments in the treatment of HIV and HIV-associated lymphomas, reduction in treatment-associated toxicities and further improvement of outcome of patients with advanced immune suppression are major requirements for future clinical trials. This review summarizes the current treatment landscape and gives an overview on future needs in HIV-positive patients with lymphoma.", "substances": ["Anti-HIV Agents", "Antineoplastic Agents"]}, {"pmid": "30149764", "year": "2019", "title": "Nivolumab-induced cytokine-release syndrome in relapsed/refractory Hodgkin's lymphoma: a case report and literature review.", "summary": "Hodgkin's lymphoma is a common malignant disease, especially among children in America. Although chemotherapy and radiotherapy are mainstay treatments for Hodgkin's lymphoma, a small portion of patient experiences relapsed or refractory diseases. Nivolumab provides an option for patients who experience relapsed or refractory disease, but adverse effects may occur. Here, we report a patient with relapsed/refractory Hodgkin's lymphoma who experienced cytokine-release syndrome after his first dose of nivolumab. The patient eventually experienced complete remission after his fifth dose of nivolumab. Cytokine-release syndrome might reflect good efficacy during treatment of relapsed/refractory Hodgkin's lymphoma with nivolumab. However, health care providers, should stay alert and take appropriate measures if adverse effects, such as cytokine-release syndrome, occur.", "substances": ["Antineoplastic Agents", "Interleukin-10", "Nivolumab", "Interferon-gamma", "C-Reactive Protein"]}, {"pmid": "29802458", "year": "2018", "title": "Treatment of classical Hodgkin lymphoma in the era of brentuximab vedotin and immune checkpoint inhibitors.", "summary": "The majority of Hodgkin lymphoma patients are now cured with conventional first-line therapy; however, 10-15% of early-stage disease and less than 30% of advanced-stage patients are refractory(rare) or relapsed. Salvage second-line therapy combined with high-dose therapy and autologous stem-cell transplantation can cure 40-50% of patients. Recently novel agents (Brentuximab Vedotin and Immune Checkpoint inhibitors) have demonstrated evidence of therapeutic activity and are potential bridge to an allogeneic stem-cell transplantation. The review is aimed to present not only salvage strategies; indeed, the paper contains paragraphs about therapy and new treatment options at diagnosis.", "substances": ["Antineoplastic Agents, Immunological", "Immunoconjugates", "Bleomycin", "Vinblastine", "Dacarbazine", "Brentuximab Vedotin", "Doxorubicin"]}, {"pmid": "29843820", "year": "2019", "title": "Successful treatment of primary bone marrow Hodgkin lymphoma with brentuximab vedotin: a case report and review of the literature.", "summary": "There is no established treatment strategy for Hodgkin lymphoma, and therapeutic outcomes using ABVD (Adriamycin, bleomycin, vinblastine and dacarbazine)-like or CHOP (cyclophosphamide, Adriamycin, vincristine, and prednisone)-like regimens are reportedly poor. Only a few patients have been reported to achieve long-term remission. Through this case report, we suggest an alternative therapeutic option for primary bone marrow Hodgkin lymphoma.", "substances": ["Immunoconjugates", "Vinblastine", "Etoposide", "Dacarbazine", "Dexamethasone", "Brentuximab Vedotin", "Doxorubicin", "Carboplatin", "Ifosfamide"]}, {"pmid": "29500175", "year": "2019", "title": "Biology of classical Hodgkin lymphoma: implications for prognosis and novel therapies.", "summary": "Hodgkin lymphoma is considered a prime example of treatment success, with cure rates exceeding 80% using modern combined modality therapies. However, especially in adolescents and young adults, treatment-related toxicity and long-term morbidity still represent persistent challenges. Moreover, outcomes in patients with relapsed or refractory disease remain unfavorable in the era of high-dose chemotherapy and stem-cell transplantation. Hence, there is a high demand for novel and innovative alternative treatment approaches. In recent years, many new therapeutic agents have emerged from preclinical and clinical studies that target molecular hallmarks of Hodgkin lymphoma, including the aberrant phenotype of the tumor cells, deregulated oncogenic pathways, and immune escape. The antibody-drug conjugate brentuximab vedotin and immune checkpoint inhibitors have already shown great success in patients with relapsed/refractory disease, leading to US Food and Drug Administration approval and new trials testing these agents in various clinical settings. The expanding knowledge and understanding of Hodgkin lymphoma biology and disease progression, as well as the development of robust tools for biomarker-driven risk stratification and therapeutic decision making, continue to be fundamentally important for the success of these and other novel agents. We anticipate that the availability and clinical implementation of novel molecular assays will be instrumental in an era of rapid shifts in the treatment landscape of this disease. Here, we review the current knowledge of Hodgkin lymphoma pathobiology, highlighting the related development of novel treatment strategies and prognostic models that hold the promise to continually challenge and change the current standard of care in classical Hodgkin lymphoma.", "substances": ["Immunoconjugates", "Brentuximab Vedotin"]}, {"pmid": "29322203", "year": "2018", "title": "Program death inhibitors in classical Hodgkin's lymphoma: a comprehensive review.", "summary": "Cancer cells are able to induce immune system tolerance through different mechanisms. Recent achievements in the understanding of tumor microenvironment, invasion, and metastasizing have contributed to accelerated drug developments and approvals. Hodgkin lymphoma (HL) cells are the minority in a lymphocyte-rich microenvironment of HL tissue. The program death-1 (PD-1)/PD-ligand-1 checkpoint is one of the known effective pathways in classical HL to escape the immune system cells. The approval of PD-1 inhibitors in different cancer types with exciting response rates is truly revolutionizing our treatment armamentarium against cancer in general and classical HL in specific. Although the disease is one of the most curable tumors, we still need better outcome with more gentle treatment, especially for relapsed and refractory (r/r) patients. In this article, we review the current literature on immune checkpoint inhibitors and currently ongoing studies with nivolumab and pembrolizumab in r/r classical HL.", "substances": ["Antibodies, Monoclonal", "Antibodies, Monoclonal, Humanized", "Antineoplastic Agents", "Antineoplastic Agents, Immunological", "B7-H1 Antigen", "CD274 protein, human", "Neoplasm Proteins", "PDCD1 protein, human", "Programmed Cell Death 1 Receptor", "Nivolumab", "pembrolizumab"]}, {"pmid": "29685160", "year": "2019", "title": "Advances in CD30- and PD-1-targeted therapies for classical Hodgkin lymphoma.", "summary": "CD30 and programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1) are two ideal therapeutic targets in classical Hodgkin lymphoma (cHL). The CD30 antibody-drug conjugate (ADC) brentuximab vedotin and the PD-1 antibodies nivolumab and pembrolizumab are highly efficacious in treating relapsed and/or refractory cHL. Ongoing studies are evaluating their efficacy in earlier lines of therapy and have demonstrated encouraging results. These agents are expected to further change the landscape of cHL management. Increased cure rates and reduced long-term toxicity from traditional chemotherapy and radiotherapy are likely with the emergence of these novel targeted therapies.", "substances": ["Ki-1 Antigen", "Programmed Cell Death 1 Receptor"]}, {"pmid": "29500174", "year": "2019", "title": "Balancing risk and benefit in early-stage classical Hodgkin lymphoma.", "summary": "With defined chemotherapy and radiotherapy (RT) and risk-adapted treatment, early-stage classical Hodgkin lymphoma (HL) has become curable in a majority of patients. Hence, a major current goal is to reduce treatment-related toxicity while maintaining long-term disease control. Patients with early-stage favorable disease (ie, limited stage without risk factors [RFs]) are frequently treated with 2 cycles of doxorubicin, bleomycin, vinblastine, and dacarbazine (2\u00d7ABVD) followed by 20-Gy involved-field or involved-site RT (IF/ISRT). In patients with early-stage unfavorable disease (ie, limited stage with RFs), 4 cycles of chemotherapy are usually consolidated with 30-Gy IF/ISRT. Compared with 4\u00d7ABVD, 2 cycles of bleomycin, etoposide, doxorubicin, cyclophosphamide, vincristine, procarbazine, and prednisone (2\u00d7BEACOPP<sub>escalated</sub>) followed by 2\u00d7ABVD improved 5-year progression-free survival (PFS), with similar 5-year overall survival. Recently, treatment strategies based on [<sup>18</sup>F]fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (PET) response were evaluated. In early-stage unfavorable HL, a majority of patients achieved a negative interim PET after 2\u00d7ABVD and an excellent outcome after 4\u00d7ABVD, whereas in those with a positive interim PET, 2\u00d7BEACOPP<sub>escalated</sub> improved 5-year PFS. Furthermore, a PET-guided RT approach was evaluated to decrease long-term toxicity. Although both the RAPID and H10 trials reported poorer disease control without RT, PET-guided omission of RT can constitute a valid therapeutic option in patients with an increased risk of RT-associated toxicity (eg, because of sex, age, or disease localization). Implementation of drugs such as the anti-CD30 antibody-drug conjugate brentuximab vedotin or the anti-programmed death 1 antibodies nivolumab or pembrolizumab might allow further reduction of overall mortality and improve quality of life in affected patients.", "substances": ["Bleomycin", "Procarbazine", "Vincristine", "Vinblastine", "Etoposide", "Dacarbazine", "Doxorubicin", "Cyclophosphamide", "Prednisone"]}, {"pmid": "30652521", "year": "2019", "title": "Sperm preservation by electroejaculation before anticancer therapy.", "summary": "EEJ is a safe and feasible procedure for SCP in an adolescent cancer patient who is unable to masturbate or use penile vibratory stimulation (PVS).", "substances": ["Vincristine", "Etoposide", "Dacarbazine", "Doxorubicin", "Cyclophosphamide"]}, {"pmid": "28711575", "year": "2018", "title": "How to Approach a Patient With Limited Stage Hodgkin Lymphoma Who Remains PET Positive at the End of Chemotherapy: Radiation Therapy?", "summary": "The use of 18-F fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) positron emission tomography (PET) with computed tomography has emerged as a crucial tool for response-adapted therapy in Hodgkin lymphoma (HL). Although more studies have focused on the predictive value of an interim or early PET obtained after 2 cycles of chemotherapy, there are indications that the end of therapy PET might even be more predictive of outcome. The optimal treatment of patients with limited stage HL who are PET-positive after chemotherapy is unknown. Here we review the prognostic significance of end of treatment PET in early stage HL, the role of consolidative radiotherapy in patients who have FDG-PET avidity at the end of chemotherapy, and discuss the place of salvage chemotherapy and autologous transplantation in these patients.", "substances": ["Radiopharmaceuticals"]}, {"pmid": "29222273", "year": "2018", "title": "Emerging role of novel therapies in Hodgkin lymphoma: proceed with caution.", "summary": "Based on very high response rates in the relapsed and refractory setting, brentuximab vedotin and the programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1) inhibitors, nivolumab and pembrolizumab, have quickly been incorporated into clinical trials for first- and second-line therapy of Hodgkin lymphoma. Preliminary data show that brentuximab vedotin alone is not adequate therapy for newly diagnosed Hodgkin lymphoma in older patients, but modestly decreases the risk of relapse when combined with adriamycin, vinblastine, and dacarbazine in patients with previously untreated advanced-stage disease. In second-line therapy, combining brentuximab vedotin with conventional chemotherapy or with PD-1 inhibitors as pretransplant salvage is associated with high overall and complete response rates, although further follow up is needed to assess whether posttransplant outcomes are improved. Although these new drugs are well tolerated when given as single agents, unexpected toxicities have been encountered with combination regimens, specifically severe pulmonary toxicity with the bleomycin and brentuximab vedotin combination and frequent infusion-related reactions. There is concern with the use of PD-1 inhibitors as first-line therapy due to the theoretical potential for more frequent or severe immune-mediated toxicities in patients who have not received prior chemotherapy. Aside from these concerns, these new agents have the potential to improve outcomes for patients even further, bringing us closer to eradicating recurrent Hodgkin lymphoma.", "substances": ["Antibodies, Monoclonal", "Antibodies, Monoclonal, Humanized", "Antineoplastic Agents", "Immunoconjugates", "Neoplasm Proteins", "PDCD1 protein, human", "Programmed Cell Death 1 Receptor", "Nivolumab", "Vinblastine", "Dacarbazine", "Brentuximab Vedotin", "Doxorubicin", "pembrolizumab"]}, {"pmid": "28819821", "year": "2019", "title": "Anti-PD-1 Antibodies as a Therapeutic Strategy in Classical Hodgkin Lymphoma.", "summary": "Classical Hodgkin lymphoma (cHL) is defined by malignant Reed-Sternberg (RS) cells that recruit non-malignant immune cells into a supportive tumour microenvironment. In cHL, this is driven, in part, by genomic alterations of the 9p24.1 locus encoding the immune checkpoint ligands PD-L1 and PD-L2. Therapeutic anti-PD-1 antibodies have been developed that competitively inhibit the interaction between PD-1 and its ligands. Clinical trials of anti-PD-1 antibodies in cHL demonstrate high overall response rates but relapses still occur and new clinical challenges exist for toxicity management and response assessment. This review discusses the biological and clinical features of anti-PD-1 antibody therapy in cHL.", "substances": ["Antibodies", "Antineoplastic Agents", "B7-H1 Antigen", "CD274 protein, human", "PDCD1 protein, human", "PDCD1LG2 protein, human", "Programmed Cell Death 1 Ligand 2 Protein", "Programmed Cell Death 1 Receptor"]}], "Melanoma": [{"pmid": "35569723", "year": "2022", "title": "Single agent Talimogene Laherparepvec for stage IIIB-IVM1c melanoma patients: A systematic review and meta-analysis.", "summary": "Single-agent Talimogene Laherparepvec\u00a0(T-VEC) was developed for treatment of unresectable and injectable stage III-IV melanoma. Since its approval and reimbursement, studies have reported varying response rates. The purpose of this systematic review and meta-analysis was to investigate the efficacy and safety of T-VEC. Of 341 publications that were identified, eight studies with a total of 642 patients were included. In patients with stage IIIB-IVM1a, the pooled complete- and overall response rate\u00a0(CRR and ORR) were 41% and 64%, respectively. In patients with stage IIIB-IVM1c, the pooled CRR and ORR were 30% and 44%, respectively. In patients with stage IVM1b and IVM1c, the pooled CRR and ORR were 4% and 9%, respectively. Adverse events\u00a0(AEs) were seen in 41-100% of all patients and 0-11% of AEs were severe. In conclusion, single agent T-VEC achieves the highest response rates in patients with early metastatic melanoma and is well-tolerated with generally only mild toxicities.", "substances": ["Biological Products", "talimogene laherparepvec"]}, {"pmid": "33400941", "year": "2022", "title": "Photodynamic therapy for choroidal melanoma: What is the response rate?", "summary": "To determine the response rate of choroidal melanoma following primary photodynamic therapy, we conducted a meta-analysis of published studies. A total of 7 studies reporting photodynamic therapy as primary treatment of choroidal melanoma in 162 patients with a mean tumor height of 2.8\u00a0mm (1.4 to 4.2) were identified. Forty-six percent of tumors were amelanotic, 48% were fully pigmented, and 6% had partial pigmentation. The photodynamic therapy parameters in all studies included 10-minute intravenous infusion of verteporfin (6\u00a0mg/m<sup>2</sup>), but varied in number of sessions (1 to 3), fluence (1\u00d7 to 19\u00d7), and number of spots (single or multiple). The response was defined as tumor regression (partial or total) or lack of growth after initial treatment. The response to photodynamic therapy was predominantly observed as regression (126 [78%]). Overall response rate was 80% (mean) with a wide range among studies (58%-100%) over a period of 50\u00a0months (mean) with variable follow-up (range, 1-156\u00a0months). None of the studies reported progression- or recurrence-free survival; however, the recurrence rate was not related to the follow-up duration. Favorable prognostic factors were smaller size and lack of pigmentation. The overall response rate of 80% suggests that photodynamic therapy may be an effective primary treatment for small choroidal melanoma, especially in cases without pigmentation. Artifacts in study design (inclusion criteria and outcome measure) may have contributed to the variable observed response rate. Further studies with uniform inclusion criteria, standardized treatment parameters, well-defined outcome measures, and long follow-up are needed.", "substances": ["Photosensitizing Agents", "Porphyrins"]}, {"pmid": "33775823", "year": "2021", "title": "Chemotherapy in focus: A meta-analysis confronts immunotherapy in the treatment of advanced melanoma.", "summary": "This study aimed to analyze the efficacy of the monoclonal antibodies ipilimumab, nivolumab, and pembrolizumab when compared with conventional chemotherapy in the treatment of advanced melanoma. Three authors made the search independently and five articles matched the eligibility criteria. A fourth expert confirmed their quality (\u03ba\u202f=\u202f1). The meta-analysis for overall survival and 12-month overall survival was impaired due to remarkably high heterogeneity (I2\u202f=\u202f91 % and 86 %, respectively). However, chemotherapy showed benefits on 24-months overall survival (RR\u202f=\u202f1.60; IC95 %: 1.29, 1.98; p\u202f<\u202f0.0001). The interruption by toxicity outcome showed no significant differences between therapies. Some studies used monoclonal antibodies in monotherapy or in combination and some groups of participants showed heterogeneity, which made the analysis difficult. Given the exorbitant costs of monoclonal antibodies in low and middle-income countries, the evidence of its benefits is limited when considering the replacement of conventional therapy with immunotherapy in public health systems.", "substances": ["Antineoplastic Agents, Immunological", "Ipilimumab", "Nivolumab"]}, {"pmid": "31664762", "year": "2021", "title": "Efficacy and safety of dabrafenib-trametinib in the treatment of unresectable advanced/metastatic melanoma with BRAF-V600 mutation: A systematic review and network meta-analysis.", "summary": "The current systematic review aimed to evaluate and compare the efficacy and safety of dabrafenib-trametinib with those of other therapeutic alternatives in the treatment of patients with unresectable advanced/metastatic melanoma with BRAF-V600 mutation. The search was carried out on four databases up to July 2018. Two separate network meta-analyses (NMA) were performed using the frequentist method (random effects): one with an exclusive population with BRAF-V600 mutation (NMA-pBRAFV600) and another with mixed population (with or without the mutation: NMA-pMixed). An evidence profile was included using the GRADE method for NMA. The validity of the final estimator in the NMA-pMixed was assessed via a sensitivity analysis. Nine clinical trials were included in the NMA-pBRAFV600. Dabrafenib-trametinib was found to have a favorable effect on overall survival (OS) and progression-free survival (PFS) compared with dabrafenib, vemurafenib, and dacarbazine and on partial response rate (PRR) and overall response rate compared with dacarbazine and vemurafenib. In the NMA-pMixed, dabrafenib-trametinib was found to have a positive effect on OS versus ipilimumab 3 mg/kg and on PFS and PRR versus ipilimumab, nivolumab, and pembrolizumab. However, dabrafenib-trametinib and vemurafenib-cobimetinib significantly differed in terms of efficacy. In addition, dabrafenib-trametinib has a favorable effect on Grades 3 and 4 adverse events.", "substances": ["Imidazoles", "Oximes", "Pyridones", "Pyrimidinones", "trametinib", "BRAF protein, human", "Proto-Oncogene Proteins B-raf", "dabrafenib"]}, {"pmid": "31393083", "year": "2020", "title": "Clinical outcomes of BRAF plus MEK inhibition in melanoma: A meta-analysis and systematic review.", "summary": "Doublet BRAF and MEK inhibition achieved better survival outcomes over single-agent BRAF inhibition and occurred less skin-related events, but gastrointestinal events were more in combination therapy.", "substances": ["Protein Kinase Inhibitors", "BRAF protein, human", "Proto-Oncogene Proteins B-raf", "MAP Kinase Kinase Kinases"]}, {"pmid": "30280426", "year": "2019", "title": "Systematic review and meta-analysis of prevalence of dermatological toxicities associated with vemurafenib treatment in patients with melanoma.", "summary": "The most frequent dermatological toxicities associated with vemurafenib treatment in patients with melanoma were cSCC, rash, PR and KA. These data may be useful for estimation of the efficacy and safety of the drug during clinical treatment and for reducing the prevalence of adverse reactions to vemurafenib treatment in patients with melanoma.", "substances": ["Antineoplastic Agents", "Vemurafenib"]}, {"pmid": "28504036", "year": "2018", "title": "Combination therapy of BRAF inhibitors for advanced melanoma with BRAF V600 mutation: a systematic review and meta-analysis.", "summary": "Combination therapy with BRAF inhibitors and MEK inhibitors significantly improved OS, PFS, and ORR in patients with advanced melanoma with BRAF mutation.", "substances": ["MAS1 protein, human", "Protein Kinase Inhibitors", "Proto-Oncogene Mas", "Proto-Oncogene Proteins B-raf", "MAP Kinase Kinase Kinases"]}, {"pmid": "28827234", "year": "2018", "title": "Multiple treatment comparison of seven new drugs for patients with advanced malignant melanoma: a systematic review and health economic decision model in a Norwegian setting.", "summary": "None of the drugs investigated can be considered cost-effective at what has normally been considered a reasonable willingness-to-pay (WTP) in Norway. Price reductions (from the official list prices) in the region of 63%-84% would be necessary for these drugs to be cost-effective at a WTP of \u20ac55 850 per QALY.", "substances": ["Antibodies, Monoclonal", "Antineoplastic Agents", "Ipilimumab", "Nivolumab", "Dacarbazine"]}, {"pmid": "28416755", "year": "2018", "title": "Efficacy and safety of BRAF inhibition alone versus combined BRAF and MEK inhibition in melanoma: a meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials.", "summary": "Recent clinical studies have shown that combination therapy of BRAF and MEK inhibition provides more survival benefit than BRAF inhibition monotherapy. However, the adverse events due to BRAF and MEK inhibitors impact the physical comfort and social life of patients. Thus, in this study we have undertaken a meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials to compare the efficacy and adverse events risk between monotherapy and combination therapy. We identified the relevant studies by searching PubMed, EMBASE and Google scholar databases, between the year January 2000 and May 2016. Based on the heterogeneity, the fixed- or random-effects models were employed to analyze the efficacy and the incidence rate of adverse events. In addition, the subgroup analyses were conducted to overcome the effects of heterogeneity. Finally, our study included five RCTs, involving 1730 patients for this meta-analysis. The fixed-effects model demonstrated that combination therapy of BRAF and MEK inhibition provided more survival benefit in terms of ORR, PFS and OS (P < 0.00001). But, the combination therapy also significantly increased the incidences of pyrexia, chills, vomiting, chorioretinopathy, retinal detachment, hypertension, night sweats, increased aspartate aminotransferase and creatine kinase levels (P < 0.05) as compared to monotherapy. But, based on the significantly better survival outcomes, the combined BRAF and MEK inhibition will obviously be the mainstay therapy for the BRAF V600-mutant melanoma. However, a set of adverse events should be paid attention when physicians consider combination therapy.", "substances": ["Protein Kinase Inhibitors", "Proto-Oncogene Proteins B-raf", "Mitogen-Activated Protein Kinase Kinases"]}, {"pmid": "28189914", "year": "2017", "title": "Immune checkpoint inhibitors and targeted therapies for metastatic melanoma: A network meta-analysis.", "summary": "The simultaneous inhibition of BRAF and MEK appears the most effective treatment for melanomas harboring BRAF V600 mutation, although anti-PD1 antibodies appear to be less toxic. Further research is needed to increase the quality of evidence.", "substances": ["Antibodies, Monoclonal", "Antineoplastic Agents", "CTLA-4 Antigen", "CTLA4 protein, human", "PDCD1 protein, human", "Programmed Cell Death 1 Receptor", "BRAF protein, human", "Proto-Oncogene Proteins B-raf", "MAP Kinase Kinase Kinases"]}, {"pmid": "27787543", "year": "2017", "title": "Systemic Therapy for Previously Untreated Advanced BRAF-Mutated Melanoma: A Systematic Review and Network Meta-Analysis of Randomized Clinical Trials.", "summary": "Compared with other treatments, BRAF/MEK and PD-1 inhibition significantly improved OS. The favorable safety profile of PD-1 inhibitors supports using this option as first-line therapy in circumstances where rapid response is not a priority.", "substances": ["CTLA-4 Antigen", "CTLA4 protein, human", "PDCD1 protein, human", "Programmed Cell Death 1 Receptor", "Protein Kinase Inhibitors", "BRAF protein, human", "Proto-Oncogene Proteins B-raf", "Mitogen-Activated Protein Kinase Kinases"]}, {"pmid": "27764796", "year": "2018", "title": "Pharmacological interventions for melanoma: Comparative analysis using bayesian meta-analysis.", "summary": "We conducted a network meta-analysis in order to compare different strategies for managing melanoma patients. Electronic databases were searched for eligible randomized trials that compared different strategies in efficacy and tolerability. Five interventions were associated with a significant improvement in PFS over chemotherapy (all HR < 1): Ipilimumab, Tremelimumab, Nivolumab, Pembrolizumab 2 mg/kg and Ipilimumab + Nivolumab. Three interventions exhibited significantly improved OS results over chemotherapy (all HR < 1): Ipilimumab, Nivolumab and Ipilimumab + Chemotherapy. Four interventions were superior to chemotherapy in CR and PR (all OR > 1): Nivolumab, Pembrolizumab 10 mg/kg, Pembrolizumab 2 mg/kg and Ipilimumab + Nivolumab. However, the other seven interventions were associated with an increased risk of pruritus compared to chemotherapy (all OR > 1). Ipilimumab, Tremelimumab, Ipilimumab + Nivolumab and Ipilimumab + Chemotherapy might result in a higher risk of diarrhea compared to chemotherapy (all OR > 1). Immune checkpoint therapy or combined interventions might be more effective than chemotherapy for managing melanoma patients. However, chemotherapy appears to be more tolerable than these combined strategies with respect to adverse events.", "substances": ["Antibodies, Monoclonal", "Antibodies, Monoclonal, Humanized", "Antineoplastic Agents, Immunological", "Ipilimumab", "Nivolumab", "pembrolizumab", "tremelimumab"]}, {"pmid": "27845904", "year": "2018", "title": "The evaluation of immunotherapy and chemotherapy treatment on melanoma: a network meta-analysis.", "summary": "We recommend pembrolizumab as the preferred treatment due to its high efficacy and low adverse effects, combination of ipilimumab and nivolumab could be used in severe symptoms.", "substances": ["Antibodies, Monoclonal", "Antibodies, Monoclonal, Humanized", "Antineoplastic Agents, Immunological", "Ipilimumab", "Nivolumab", "pembrolizumab"]}, {"pmid": "27391143", "year": "2018", "title": "Melanoma risk in patients with rheumatoid arthritis treated with tumour necrosis factor alpha inhibitors: a systematic review and meta-analysis.", "summary": "Clinicians are concerned that treatment of rheumatoid arthritis (RA) with tumour necrosis factor alpha antagonists (TNF\u03b1 biologics) may increase patients' risk of melanoma compared with treatment with nonbiologic disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs (nbDMARDS). We aimed to assess the risk of melanoma in RA patients treated with TNF\u03b1 biologics compared with RA patients treated with nbDMARDS. A secondary aim was to quantify the risk of melanoma in RA patients treated with TNF\u03b1 biologics compared with the general population. We carried out a systematic review and meta-analysis searching Medline, Embase and the ISI Science Citation Index databases to January 2016. Cohort studies that enabled a quantitative assessment of the risk of melanoma in RA patients treated with TNF\u03b1 biologics compared with either RA patients treated with nbDMARDS or the general population or both were included. Data were pooled using a random-effects model. From 812 articles, we identified six that fulfilled the inclusion criteria. Four studies reported on the risk of melanoma in RA patients treated with TNF\u03b1 biologics compared with those treated with nbDMARDS, with a pooled effect estimate of 1.60 (95% confidence interval 1.16-2.19). Five reported on the risk of melanoma in RA patients treated with TNF\u03b1 biologics compared with the general population, and the pooled effect estimate was 1.87 (95% confidence interval 1.53-2.30). There was no significant heterogeneity in either analysis. This systematic review and meta-analysis does not allay clinician's fears and, while awaiting further evidence from large collaborative studies, this patient population may benefit from regular skin checks and counselling to avoid excessive sun exposure.", "substances": ["Tumor Necrosis Factor-alpha"]}, {"pmid": "35993892", "year": "2022", "title": "Melanoma risk during immunomodulating treatment.", "summary": "Immunosuppressive therapy is standard for the treatment of inflammatory diseases and for minimizing rejection in transplant patients. However, immunosuppressant drugs are associated with an increased risk of certain cancers. In particular, melanoma is an immunogenic tumor and as such, is strongly influenced by the immune system. We performed this literature review to summarize the effects of commonly used immunomodulating agents on melanoma development, recurrence and progression. We outline the mechanism of action of each drug and discuss the available evidence on its influence on melanoma. Based on existing literature, we recommend avoiding the following agents in patients with a history of invasive melanoma: cyclosporine, sirolimus, natalizumab, IL-6 inhibitors, cyclophosphamide, methotrexate and the tumor necrosis factor-alpha inhibitors infliximab and etanercept. If there are no viable alternative agents, we recommend for these patients to see a dermatologist every 6\u2009months for a thorough skin examination.", "substances": ["Tumor Necrosis Factor-alpha", "Etanercept", "Infliximab"]}, {"pmid": "35513054", "year": "2022", "title": "The future of targeted kinase inhibitors in melanoma.", "summary": "Melanoma is a cancer of the pigment-producing cells of the body and its incidence is rising. Targeted inhibitors that act against kinases in the MAPK pathway are approved for BRAF-mutant metastatic cutaneous melanoma and increase patients' survival. Response to these therapies is limited by drug resistance and is less durable than with immune checkpoint inhibition. Conversely, rare melanoma subtypes have few therapeutic options for advanced disease and MAPK pathway targeting agents show minimal anti-tumor effects. Nevertheless, there is a future for targeted kinase inhibitors in melanoma: in new applications such as adjuvant or neoadjuvant therapy and in novel combinations with immunotherapies or other targeted therapies. Pre-clinical studies continue to identify tumor dependencies and their corresponding actionable drug targets, paving the way for rational targeted kinase inhibitor combinations as a personalized medicine approach for melanoma.", "substances": ["Protein Kinase Inhibitors", "Antineoplastic Agents", "Proto-Oncogene Proteins B-raf"]}, {"pmid": "36211808", "year": "2022", "title": "Influencing tumor-associated macrophages in malignant melanoma with monoclonal antibodies.", "summary": "The application of monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) for the treatment of melanoma has significantly improved the clinical management of this malignancy over the last decade. Currently approved mAbs for melanoma enhance T cell effector immune responses by blocking immune checkpoint molecules PD-L1/PD-1 and CTLA-4. However, more than half of patients do not benefit from treatment. Targeting the prominent myeloid compartment within the tumor microenvironment, and in particular the ever-abundant tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs), may be a promising strategy to complement existing therapies and enhance treatment success. TAMs are a highly diverse and plastic subset of cells whose pro-tumor properties can support melanoma growth, angiogenesis and invasion. Understanding of their diversity, plasticity and multifaceted roles in cancer forms the basis for new promising TAM-centered treatment strategies. There are multiple mechanisms by which macrophages can be targeted with antibodies in a therapeutic setting, including by depletion, inhibition of specific pro-tumor properties, differential polarization to pro-inflammatory states and enhancement of antitumor immune functions. Here, we discuss TAMs in melanoma, their interactions with checkpoint inhibitor antibodies and emerging mAbs targeting different aspects of TAM biology and their potential to be translated to the clinic.", "substances": ["Antibodies, Monoclonal", "Antineoplastic Agents, Immunological", "B7-H1 Antigen", "CTLA-4 Antigen", "Immune Checkpoint Proteins", "Plastics", "Programmed Cell Death 1 Receptor"]}, {"pmid": "35869314", "year": "2022", "title": "Electrochemotherapy of skin metastases from malignant melanoma: a PRISMA-compliant systematic review.", "summary": "The main treatment of MM metastases are systemic therapies, surgery, limb perfusion, and intralesional talimogene laherparepvec. Electrochemotherapy (ECT) is potentially useful also due to the high response rates recorded in cancers of any histology. No randomized studies comparing ECT with other local therapies have been published on this topic. We analyzed the available evidence on efficacy and toxicity of ECT in this setting.\u00a0PubMed, Scopus, and Cochrane databases were screened for paper about ECT on MM skin metastases. Data about tumor response, mainly in terms of overall response rate (ORR), toxicity (both for ECT alone and in combination with systemic treatments), local control (LC), and overall survival (OS) were collected. The methodological quality was assessed using a 20-item validated quality appraisal tool for case series.\u00a0Overall, 18 studies were included in our analysis. In studies reporting \"per patient\" tumor response the pooled complete response (CR) was 35.7% (95%CI 26.0-46.0%), and the pooled ORR was 80.6% (95%CI 68.7-90.1%). Regarding \"per lesion\" response, the pooled CR was 53.5% (95%CI 42.1-64.7%) and the pooled ORR was 77.0% (95%CI 56.0-92.6%). One-year LC rate was 80%, and 1-year OS was 67-86.2%. Pain (24.2-92.0%) and erythema (16.6-42.0%) were the most frequent toxicities. Two studies reported 29.2% and 41.6% incidence of necrosis.\u00a0ECT is effective in terms of tumor response and tolerated in patients with skin metastases from MM, albeit with a wide variability of reported results. Therefore, prospective trials in this setting are warranted.", "substances": ["Bleomycin"]}, {"pmid": "36124923", "year": "2022", "title": "Complementary and alternative therapies in skin cancer a literature review of biologically active compounds.", "summary": "Complementary and alternative medicine or therapies (CAM) are frequently used by skin cancers patients. Patient's self-administration of CAM in melanoma can reach up to 40%-50%. CAMs such as botanical agents, phytochemicals, herbal formulas (\"black salve\") and cannabinoids, among others, have been described in skin cancer patients. The objective of this review article was to acknowledge the different CAM for skin cancers through the current evidence, focusing on biologically active CAM rather than mind-body approaches. We searched MEDLINE database for articles published through July 2022, regardless of study design. Of all CAMs, phytochemicals have the best in vitro evidence-supporting efficacy against skin cancer including melanoma; however, to date, none have proved efficacy on human patients. Of the phytochemicals, Curcumin is the most widely studied. Several findings support Curcumin efficacy in vitro through various molecular pathways, although most studies are in the preliminary phase. In addition, the use of alternative therapies is not exempt of risks physicians should be aware of their adverse effects, interactions with standard treatments, and possible complications arising from CAM usage. There is emerging evidence for CAM use in skin cancer, but no human clinical trials support the effectiveness of any CAM in the treatment of skin cancer to date. Nevertheless, patients worldwide frequently use CAM, and physicians should educate themselves on currently available CAMs.", "substances": ["Curcumin"]}, {"pmid": "36058143", "year": "2022", "title": "Indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase (IDO) inhibitors and cancer immunotherapy.", "summary": "Strategies for unlocking immunosuppression in the tumor microenvironment have been investigated to overcome resistance to first-generation immune checkpoint blockade with anti- programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1)/ programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-L1) and anti-cytotoxic T-lymphocyte associated protein 4 (CTLA-4) agents. Indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase (IDO) 1, an enzyme catabolizing tryptophan to kynurenine, creates an immunosuppressive environment in preclinical studies. Early phase clinical trials investigating inhibition of IDO1, especially together with checkpoint blockade, provided promising results. Unfortunately, the phase 3 trial of the IDO1 inhibitor epacadostat combined with the PD-1 inhibitor pembrolizumab did not show clinical benefit when compared with pembrolizumab monotherapy in patients with advanced malignant melanoma, which dampened enthusiasm for IDO inhibitors. Even so, several molecules, such as the aryl hydrocarbon receptor and tryptophan 2,3-dioxygenase, were reported as additional potential targets for the modulation of the tryptophan pathway, which might enhance clinical effectiveness. Furthermore, the combination of IDO pathway blockade with agents inhibiting other signals, such as those generated by PIK3CA mutations that may accompany IDO1 upregulation, may be a novel way to enhance activity. Importantly, IDO1 expression level varies by tumor type and among patients with the same tumor type, suggesting that patient selection based on expression levels of IDO1 may be warranted in clinical trials.", "substances": ["B7-H1 Antigen", "CTLA-4 Antigen", "Enzyme Inhibitors", "Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors", "Indoleamine-Pyrrole 2,3,-Dioxygenase", "Programmed Cell Death 1 Receptor", "Receptors, Aryl Hydrocarbon", "Kynurenine", "Tryptophan", "Tryptophan Oxygenase", "Class I Phosphatidylinositol 3-Kinases"]}, {"pmid": "35998515", "year": "2022", "title": "Analysis of the association between prospectively collected immune-related adverse events and survival in patients with solid tumor treated with immune-checkpoint blockers, taking into account immortal-time bias.", "summary": "In our real-life study of patients with melanoma and NSCLC treated with anti-PD-(L)1 antibodies, we confirm that irAEs are associated with improved survival using a time-varying Cox regression model. Analysis with a landmark method showed no difference in OS or PFS between patients who experienced irAE during the first 12\u00a0weeks of treatment and those who did not. Retrospective analysis and reviews including studies that do not deal with the immortal-time bias and studies insufficiently powered for a landmark analysis should be interpreted with caution.", "substances": ["Antineoplastic Agents, Immunological", "Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors", "Nivolumab"]}, {"pmid": "27483468", "year": "2017", "title": "PD-1 Antibody Monotherapy for Malignant Melanoma: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis.", "summary": "Antibodies targeting programmed death 1 (PD-1) help prevent tumor cells from escaping immune-mediated destruction. We conducted this systematic review and meta-analysis to gain insight into the efficacy of PD-1 antibodies for the treatment of melanoma. Five trials involving 2,828 adult patients were included in this meta-analysis. In patients with previously untreated or refractory melanoma, treatment with PD-1 antibodies significantly improved the six-month progression-free survival (PFS) (HR 0.55, 95% CI 0.50-0.60, P<0.00001) and the overall response rate (OR 3.89, 95% CI 3.12-4.83, P<0.00001). This meta-analysis indicated that anti-PD-1 treatment might provide a significant survival benefit in patients with melanoma. In addition, we found that patients treated with nivolumab reported significantly fewer treatment-related adverse events (OR 0.74, 95% CI 0.57-0.97, P = 0.03) than those treated with other agents, but there was a dose-dependent increase in the frequency of adverse events in patients treated with pembrolizumab. ", "substances": ["Antibodies, Monoclonal", "Antibodies, Monoclonal, Humanized", "Antineoplastic Agents", "PDCD1 protein, human", "Programmed Cell Death 1 Receptor", "Nivolumab", "pembrolizumab"]}, {"pmid": "27167347", "year": "2017", "title": "Targeting immune checkpoints in unresectable metastatic cutaneous melanoma: a systematic review and meta-analysis of anti-CTLA-4 and anti-PD-1 agents trials.", "summary": "Anti-cytotoxic T lymphocyte-associated antigen-4 (CTLA-4) and anti-programmed cell death-1 (PD-1) inhibitors have been shown to significantly improve survival in patients with metastatic cutaneous melanoma. However, there was some heterogeneity as well as some variation in the degree of benefit across studies. We reviewed randomized trials and performed a meta-analysis to determine the efficacy and safety of immune checkpoint inhibitors in comparison with conventional regimens. Eligible studies were limited to randomized controlled trials comparing anti-CTLA-4 or anti-PD-1 inhibitors to chemotherapy or vaccination treatment in adult patients with unresectable cutaneous metastatic melanoma. Progression-free survival (PFS) rate at 6\u00a0months was 28.5% versus 17.7% (RR: 0.84, 95% CI: 0.76-0.93), overall survival (OS) rate at 1\u00a0year was 51.2% versus 38.8% (RR: 0.72, 95% CI: 0.59-0.88), and overall response rate (ORR) at 6\u00a0months was 29.6% versus 17.7% (RR: 0.85, 95% CI: 0.76-0.95) favoring immune check point inhibitors over chemotherapies or vaccination. Immune check point inhibitors were associated with more frequent immune-related adverse events at 13.7% versus 2.4% of treated patients (RR: 6.74, 95% CI: 4.65-9.75). Subgroup analyses demonstrated significant PFS (RR: 0.92 vs. 0.74, P\u00a0<\u00a00.00001) and ORR (RR: 0.95 vs. 0.76, P\u00a0=\u00a00.0004) improvement with anti-PD-1 treatment compared to anti-CTLA-4 when each of them was compared to control treatments. Collectively, these results demonstrate that immune checkpoint inhibitors have superior outcomes compared to conventional chemotherapies or vaccination, and support the results of recent randomized trials that showed superior outcomes with anti-PD-1 agents over ipilimumab in unresectable metastatic cutaneous melanoma patients.", "substances": ["Antibodies, Monoclonal", "Antineoplastic Agents", "CTLA-4 Antigen", "Programmed Cell Death 1 Receptor"]}, {"pmid": "35892257", "year": "2022", "title": "Pembrolizumab-associated erythema nodosum in the treatment of metastatic melanoma.", "summary": "A 66-year-old woman receiving pembrolizumab for metastatic melanoma presented with tender red nodules on her shins and forearms. Biopsy was consistent with erythema nodosum (EN). The eruption responded to oral minocycline and potent topical steroids. Subsequent investigations detected bihilar lymphadenopathy, biopsied as granulomatous lymphadenitis, confirming the diagnosis of pembrolizumab-associated sarcoidosis. Pembrolizumab was stopped for two cycles and was restarted without recrudescence of EN or bihilar lymphadenopathy. Immunotherapy-associated sarcoidosis is a rare but recognized adverse event related to therapy with immune checkpoint inhibitors. EN is an uncommon manifestation of immunotherapy-induced sarcoidosis. New-onset bihilar lymphadenopathy in the context of immunotherapy requires prompt histological evaluation to differentiate between immunotherapy-associated sarcoidosis and metastatic progression. We review the literature related to immunotherapy-associated EN.", "substances": ["Antibodies, Monoclonal, Humanized", "pembrolizumab"]}, {"pmid": "35278438", "year": "2022", "title": "Use of interferon alpha 2b to manage conjunctival primary acquired melanosis and conjunctival melanoma.", "summary": "Primary acquired melanosis (PAM) is acquired conjunctival pigmentation that can give rise to conjunctival melanoma (CM), a malignant tumor of the bulbar and palpebral conjunctiva or the caruncle. Surgical excision is the treatment of choice for this neoplasm. Topical chemotherapy is also used for patients with PAM with atypia or CM and, in patients with recurrent or extensive disease, this may be an important option. Of the several chemotherapeutic drugs used, topical interferon alpha 2b (IFN-\u03b12b) has become popular because of its low toxicity. Clinical evidence from case reports and case series supports the efficacy of IFN-\u03b12b as the preferred adjuvant treatment for PAM and CM. In addition, topical IFN-\u03b12b has been successfully applied to melanocytic tumors refractory to other treatments, such as cryotherapy and topical mitomycin C. In patients with locally advanced CM, the combination of IFN-\u03b12b and systemic immunotherapy may serve as an alternative to exenteration. Given the low frequency of CM, long-term multicenter studies are needed to demonstrate the efficacy of IFN-\u03b12b for preventing local recurrence and distant metastasis.", "substances": ["Interferon-alpha"]}, {"pmid": "36233289", "year": "2022", "title": "Gut Microbiota and Therapy in Metastatic Melanoma: Focus on MAPK Pathway Inhibition.", "summary": "Gut microbiome (GM) and its either pro-tumorigenic or anti-tumorigenic role is intriguing and constitutes an evolving landscape in translational oncology. It has been suggested that these microorganisms may be involved in carcinogenesis, cancer treatment response and resistance, as well as predisposition to adverse effects. In melanoma patients, one of the most immunogenic cancers, immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICI) and MAPK-targeted therapy-BRAF/MEK inhibitors-have revolutionized prognosis, and the study of the microbiome as a modulating factor is thus appealing. Although BRAF/MEK inhibitors constitute one of the main backbones of treatment in melanoma, little is known about their impact on GM and how this might correlate with immune re-induction. On the contrary, ICI and their relationship to GM has become an interesting field of research due to the already-known impact of immunotherapy in modulating the immune system. Immune reprogramming in the tumor microenvironment has been established as one of the main targets of microbiome, since it can induce immunosuppressive phenotypes, promote inflammatory responses or conduct anti-tumor responses. As a result, ongoing clinical trials are evaluating the role of fecal microbiota transplant (FMT), as well as the impact of using dietary supplements, antibiotics and probiotics in the prediction of response to therapy. In this review, we provide an overview of GM's link to cancer, its relationship with the immune system and how this may impact response to treatments in melanoma patients. We also discuss insights about novel therapeutic approaches including FMT, changes in diet and use of probiotics, prebiotics and symbiotics. Finally, we hypothesize on the possible pathways through which GM may impact anti-tumor efficacy in melanoma patients treated with targeted therapy, an appealing subject of which little is known.", "substances": ["Anti-Bacterial Agents", "Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors", "Protein Kinase Inhibitors", "Proto-Oncogene Proteins B-raf", "Mitogen-Activated Protein Kinase Kinases"]}, {"pmid": "36232957", "year": "2022", "title": "Novel Biomarkers and Therapeutic Targets for Melanoma.", "summary": "Malignant melanoma is one of the most common cancers in the world. In the disease's early stages, treatment involves surgery, in advanced stages however, treatment options were once scarce. There has been a paradigm shift in advanced melanoma treatment with the introduction of immunotherapy and targeted therapies. Understanding the molecular pathways and their pathologic counterparts helped identifying specific biomarkers that lead to the development of specific targeted therapies. In this review we briefly present some of these markers and their relevance to melanoma treatment.", "substances": ["Biomarkers"]}, {"pmid": "36125618", "year": "2022", "title": "Antibody-Drug Conjugates for Melanoma and Other Skin Malignancies.", "summary": "While most skin malignancies are successfully treated with surgical excision, advanced and metastatic skin malignancies still often have poor long-term outcomes despite therapeutic advances. Antibody-drug conjugates (ADCs) serve as a potentially promising novel therapeutic approach to treat advanced skin cancers as they combine antibody-associated antigen specificity with cytotoxic anti-tumor effects, thereby maximizing efficacy and minimizing systemic toxicity. While no ADCs have gained regulatory approval for advanced skin cancers, several promising agents are undergoing preclinical and clinical investigation. In addition to identifying and validating skin cancer antigen targets, the key to maximizing therapeutic success is the careful development of each component of the ADC complex: antibodies, cytotoxic drugs, and linkers. It is the optimization of each of these components that will be integral in overcoming resistance, maximizing safety, and improving long-term clinical outcomes.", "substances": ["Antineoplastic Agents", "Immunoconjugates"]}, {"pmid": "35902427", "year": "2022", "title": "State of affairs regarding targeted pharmacological therapy of cancers metastasized to the brain.", "summary": "In 1999 a visionary short article by The Wall Street Journal writers Robert Langreth and Michael Waldholz popularized the new term \"personalized medicine,\" that is to say, the targeting of drugs to each unique genetic profile. From today's perspective, targeted approaches have clearly found the widest use in the antineoplastic domain. The current review was initiated to review the progress that has been made regarding the treatment of patients with advanced cancer and brain metastases. PubMed was searched for the terms brain metastasis, brain metastases, or metastatic brain in the Title/Abstract. Selection was limited to randomized controlled trial (RCT) and publication date January 2010 to February 2022. Following visual review, 51 papers on metastatic lung cancer, 12 on metastatic breast cancer, and 9 on malignant melanoma were retained and underwent full analysis. Information was extracted from the papers giving specific numbers for intracranial response rate and/or overall survival. Since most pharmacological trials on advanced cancers excluded patients with brain metastases and since hardly any information on adjuvant radiotherapy and radiosurgery is available from the pharmacological trials, precise assessment of the effect of targeted medication for the subgroups with brain metastases is difficult. Some quantitative information regarding the success of targeted pharmacological therapy is only available for patients with breast and lung cancer and melanoma. Overall, targeted approaches approximately doubled the lifespan in the subgroups of brain metastases from tumors with targetable surface receptors such as anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK) fusion receptor in non-small cell lung cancer or human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2)-positive breast cancer. For these types, overall survival in the situation of brain metastases is now more than a year. For receptor-negative lung cancer and melanoma, introduction of immune checkpoint blockers brought a substantial advance, although overall survival for melanoma metastasized to the brain appears to remain in the range of 6 to 9\u00a0months. The outlook for small cell lung cancer metastasized to the brain apparently remains poor. The introduction of targeted therapy roughly doubled survival times of advanced cancers including those metastasized to the brain, but so far, targeted therapy does not differ essentially from chemotherapy, therefore also facing tumors developing escape mechanisms. With the improved perspective of patients suffering from brain metastases, it becomes important to further optimize treatment of this specific patient group within the framework of randomized trials.", "substances": ["Antineoplastic Agents", "Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors", "Anaplastic Lymphoma Kinase"]}, {"pmid": "36012642", "year": "2022", "title": "Evaluation of the Therapeutic Potential of Histone Deacetylase 6 Inhibitors for Primary and Metastatic Uveal Melanoma.", "summary": "Patients diagnosed with metastatic uveal melanoma (MUM) have a poor survival prognosis. Unfortunately for this rare disease, there is no known cure and suitable therapeutic options are limited. HDAC6 inhibitors (HDAC6i) are currently in clinical trials for other cancers and show potential beneficial effects against tumor cell survival in vitro and in vivo. In MUM cells, HDAC6i show an anti-proliferative effect in vitro and in preclinical xenograft models. The use of HDAC6 inhibitors as a treatment option for MUM should be explored further. Therefore, this review discusses (1) what is known about HDAC6i in MUM and (2) whether HDAC6 inhibitors offer a potential therapeutic option for MUM.", "substances": ["Histone Deacetylase Inhibitors", "Histone Deacetylase 6"]}, {"pmid": "35789495", "year": "2022", "title": "The involvement of a chemokine receptor antagonist CTCE-9908 and kynurenine metabolites in cancer development.", "summary": "Cancer is the second leading cause of mortality worldwide. Skin cancer is the most common cancer in South Africa with nearly 20,000 reported cases every year and 700 deaths. If diagnosed early, the 5-year survival rate is about 90%, however, when diagnosed late, the 5-year survival rate decreases to about 20%. Melanoma is a type of skin cancer with an estimated 5-year survival rate of approximately 90%. Neuroblastoma is a paediatric cancer with a low survival rate. Sixty percent of patients with metastatic disease do not survive 5 years after diagnosis. Despite recent advances in targeted therapies, there is a crucial need to identify reliable prognostic biomarkers which will be able to contribute to the development of more precision-based chemotherapeutic strategies to prevent tumour migration and metastasis. The compound, CTCE-9908 inhibits the binding of CXC chemokine ligand 12 (CXCL12) to the CXC chemokine receptor 4 (CXCR4) receptor leading to reduced metastasis. Kynurenine metabolites are derived tryptophan, which is an essential amino acid. Kynurenine metabolites inhibit T-cell proliferation resulting in cell growth arrest. For this reason, chemokines receptors represent potential targets for the treatment of cancer growth and metastasis. In this review paper, the role of the CXCL12/CXCR4 signalling pathway in the development of cancer is highlighted together with the current available treatments involving the CTCE-9908 compound in combination with microtubule inhibitors like paclitaxel and docetaxel.", "substances": ["CTCE-9908", "Chemokine CXCL12", "Chemokines, CXC", "Peptides", "Receptors, CXCR4", "Kynurenine"]}, {"pmid": "35732246", "year": "2022", "title": "\"RB-reactivator screening\" as a novel cell-based assay for discoveries of molecular targeting agents including the first-in-class MEK inhibitor trametinib (trade name: Mekinist).", "summary": "The retinoblastoma gene (RB) was discovered as the first tumor-suppressor gene. It was subsequently shown to be inactivated in most malignant tumors, particularly at the protein level. Therefore, many activated oncogenes as well as inactivated tumor-suppressor genes inactivate the function of the RB protein. I hypothesized that most of the molecular-targeting agents against activated oncogenes may reactivate the function of RB, and proposed screening systems for agents up-regulating the expression of cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitors, such as p15, p27, and p21, which convert the phosphorylated inactive form of the RB protein to the unphosphorylated active form. I termed this screening as \"RB-reactivator screening\". Using the screening systems for agents that up-regulate the expression of p15, p27, and p21, we discovered the novel MEK inhibitor trametinib, the novel RAF/MEK inhibitor CH5126766/RO5126766/VS-6766, and the histone deacetylase inhibitor YM753/OBP-801, respectively. Trametinib exerted remarkable effects in patients with advanced BRAF mutant melanoma, and was approved in the USA as the first-in-class MEK inhibitor (trade name: Mekinist) in 2013. The British Pharmacological Society selected trametinib as the Drug Discovery of the Year in 2013. The combination of trametinib and the BRAF inhibitor dabrafenib was approved for advanced BRAF mutant melanoma in the USA, EU, Japan, and many other countries. Additionally, the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) granted Breakthrough Therapy Designation for the combination of trametinib and dabrafenib in the treatment of patients with advanced BRAF mutant non-small cell lung cancer in 2015, and this combination was subsequently approved in the EU, USA, and Japan. In 2018, this combination was also approved for locally advanced or metastatic BRAF V600-mutant anaplastic thyroid cancer in the USA after it had been granted Breakthrough Therapy Designation by the FDA. I describe here the characterization of our original screening system, RB-reactivator screening, by which these three molecular-targeting agents that advanced into clinical trials were identified.", "substances": ["Oximes", "Protein Kinase Inhibitors", "Pyridones", "Pyrimidinones", "Retinoblastoma Protein", "trametinib", "Proto-Oncogene Proteins B-raf", "Mitogen-Activated Protein Kinase Kinases"]}, {"pmid": "35294334", "year": "2022", "title": "Recent advances in nanotechnology based combination drug therapy for skin cancer.", "summary": "Skin-cancer (SC) is more common than all other cancers affecting large percentage of the population in the world and is increasing in terms of morbidity and mortality. In the United States, 3million people are affected by SC annually whereas millions of people are affected globally. Melanoma is fifth most common cancer in the United States. SC is commonly occurred in white people as per WHO. SC is divided into two groups, i.e. melanoma and non-melanoma. In the previous two decades, management of cancer remains to be a tough and a challenging task for many scholars. Presently, the treatment protocols are mostly based on surgery and chemo-radiation therapy, which sooner or later harm the unaffected cells too. To reduce these limitations, nano scaled materials and its extensive range may be recognized as the probable carriers for the selective drug delivery in response to cancerous cells. Recently, the nanocarriers based drugs and their combinations were found to be a new and interesting approach of study for the management of skin carcinoma to enhance the effectiveness, to lessen the dose-dependent side effects and to avoid the drug resistance. This review may emphasize on the wide-range of information on nanotechnology-based drugs and their combination with physical techniques.", "substances": ["Antineoplastic Agents", "Drug Carriers"]}, {"pmid": "35667946", "year": "2022", "title": "Electrochemotherapy and immune interactions; A boost to the system?", "summary": "Electrochemotherapy (ECT), the application of an electric impulse to deliver chemotherapy drugs into cells, has been in clinical trials since the early 1990s and has been used for a variety of different malignancies including melanoma and sarcoma. A standard operating procedure for the use of ECT in clinical settings has been established since 2006. ECT is very effective in reducing the local tumour burden via T-cell dependent killing of the cancer cells; however abscopal effects are not consistently observed. Currently little is known or understood about how ECT affects the immune cell population within the treated tumour and how these changes could impact the immune response. In this manuscript, we will review the current knowledge on ECT in the context of its interactions with the immune system and discuss how the gained knowledge could be harnessed to develop a potent ECT-immune co-treatment combination (Electroimmunotherapy).", "substances": ["Bleomycin"]}, {"pmid": "35276075", "year": "2022", "title": "Delayed hemorrhagic gastritis caused by immunotherapy in a patient With metastatic melanoma.", "summary": "Pembrolizumab is a monoclonal antibody which targets the programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1) receptor of lymphocytes. It is commonly used to treat many types of malignancies. Immunotherapy-related adverse events are relatively common and include pneumonitis, colitis and hepatitis. A rare side effect of immunotherapy is gastrointestinal (GI) bleeding secondary to hemorrhagic gastritis. Side effects from immunotherapy most commonly occur eight to twelve weeks after initiation of therapy but can vary from days after the first dose to even months later. We present a rare case of a patient with metastatic melanoma who had confirmed immune-mediated hemorrhagic gastritis which occurred after 23 cycles of Pembrolizumab. Biopsies for Heliobacter Pylori (H. pylori) and cytomegalovirus (CMV) were negative. The patient's immunotherapy was discontinued, and he was started on high dose steroids. The symptoms (nausea, vomiting, and abdominal pain) improved dramatically with a long steroid taper. An esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD) performed three months after hospital discharge showed improvement in gastric mucosa, but biopsies continued to show evidence of acute and chronic gastritis. As cancer patients continue to live longer with immunotherapy, it is important for all providers to be aware of the less common side effects of newer agents such as pembrolizumab.", "substances": ["Antibodies, Monoclonal", "Immunologic Factors"]}, {"pmid": "34715287", "year": "2022", "title": "BRAF inhibition and the spectrum of granulomatous reactions.", "summary": "V-raf murine sarcoma viral oncogene homolog B1 (BRAF)\u00a0inhibitors have emerged as a promising targeted therapy for malignancies with BRAF mutations, particularly metastatic melanoma. However, granulomatous reactions (GRs), including sarcoidosis and sarcoid-like reactions, have been reported as a consequence of BRAF inhibition. It is important to adequately characterize these GRs, including cutaneous manifestations and systemic involvement, in order to guide investigations and management. A literature review was conducted to characterize the spectrum of GRs associated with BRAF inhibitors, identifying 55 reactions affecting 51 patients, with 37 reactions limited to cutaneous involvement. Further, a possible correlation with cancer response, mechanisms of granuloma formation, and a proposed workup and management approach for these GRs are presented.", "substances": ["Protein Kinase Inhibitors", "BRAF protein, human", "Proto-Oncogene Proteins B-raf"]}, {"pmid": "27368007", "year": "2017", "title": "Early analysis of surrogate endpoints for metastatic melanoma in immune checkpoint inhibitor trials.", "summary": "Recent major phase III trials led to the approval of immune checkpoint inhibitors (ipilimumab, pembrolizumab, and nivolumab) in metastatic malignant melanoma (MM). We aim to assess whether median progression-free survival, and 1 and 2-year overall survival (OS) rates are reliable surrogate endpoints for median OS through a meta-analysis of published trials involving immunotherapy. A systematic literature search in PubMed, EMBASE, Web of Science, and SCOPUS of published phase II to III trials with immunotherapy as the treatment for MM was conducted. Adjusted weighted linear regression was used to calculate Pearson correlations (R) between surrogates and median OS, and between treatment effects on surrogates and median OS. A total of 13 studies involving 3373 patients with MM were identified. The correlation of progression-free survival with OS was not significant (R = 0.45, P = .11). Conversely, the correlation between 1-year OS and median OS was very strong (R = 0.93, 95% confidence interval [CI] 0.84-0.96, P\u200a<\u200a.00001), as was the correlation between 2-year OS and OS (R = 0.79, 95% CI 0.51-0.91, P = .0001). The correlation between the treatment effects on 1-year OS and OS was also significant (R = -0.86, 95% CI -0.3 to 0.97, P = .01). Similar results were obtained for 2-year OS. According to the available study data, 1-year OS rate could be regarded as a potential surrogate for median OS in novel immunotherapy trials of metastatic MM. Waiting for ongoing studies (e.g., pembrolizumab), we suggest that this intermediate endpoint could be considered as a potential primary endpoint in future clinical trials. ", "substances": ["Biomarkers"]}, {"pmid": "35954196", "year": "2022", "title": "Cutting-Edge: Preclinical and Clinical Development of the First Approved Lag-3 Inhibitor.", "summary": "Immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) have revolutionized medical practice in oncology since the FDA approval of the first ICI 11 years ago. In light of this, Lymphocyte-Activation Gene 3 (LAG-3) is one of the most important next-generation immune checkpoint molecules, playing a similar role as Programmed cell Death protein 1 (PD-1) and Cytotoxic T-Lymphocyte Antigen 4 (CTLA-4). 19 LAG-3 targeting molecules are being evaluated at 108 clinical trials which are demonstrating positive results, including promising bispecific molecules targeting LAG-3 simultaneously with other ICIs. Recently, a new dual anti-PD-1 (Nivolumab) and anti-LAG-3 (Relatimab) treatment developed by Bristol Myers Squibb (Opdualag), was approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) as the first LAG-3 blocking antibody combination for unresectable or metastatic melanoma. This novel immunotherapy combination more than doubled median progression-free survival (PFS) when compared to nivolumab monotherapy (10.1 months versus 4.6 months). Here, we analyze the large clinical trial responsible for this historical approval (RELATIVITY-047), and discuss the preclinical and clinical developments that led to its jump into clinical practice. We will also summarize results achieved by other LAG-3 targeting molecules with promising anti-tumor activities currently under clinical development in phases I, I/II, II, and III. Opdualag will boost the entry of more LAG-3 targeting molecules into clinical practice, supporting the accumulating evidence highlighting the pivotal role of LAG-3 in cancer.", "substances": ["Immunologic Factors", "Nivolumab"]}, {"pmid": "35772580", "year": "2022", "title": "Targeting EGFR in melanoma - The sea of possibilities to overcome drug resistance.", "summary": "Melanoma is considered one of the most aggressive skin cancers. It spreads and metastasizes quickly and is intrinsically resistant to most conventional chemotherapeutics, thereby presenting a challenge to researchers and clinicians searching for effective therapeutic strategies to treat patients with melanoma. The use of inhibitors of mutated serine/threonine-protein kinase B-RAF (BRAF), e.g., vemurafenib and dabrafenib, has revolutionized melanoma chemotherapy. Unfortunately, the response to these drugs lasts a limited time due to the development of acquired resistance. One of the proteins responsible for this process is epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR). In this review, we summarize the role of EGFR signaling in the multidrug resistance of melanomas and discuss possible applications of EGFR inhibitors to overcome the development of drug resistance in melanoma cells during therapy.", "substances": ["Protein Kinase Inhibitors", "Vemurafenib", "EGFR protein, human", "ErbB Receptors"]}, {"pmid": "35675685", "year": "2022", "title": "A Decade of Success in Melanoma Immunotherapy and Targeted Therapy: What Every Radiologist Should Know.", "summary": "Treatment strategies for malignant melanoma have rapidly evolved over the past decade. Because of its propensity to develop advanced stage and metastatic disease, melanoma has contributed to the majority of mortalities among patients with skin cancer. The development of novel therapeutics such as immunotherapy and targeted molecular therapies has revolutionized the treatment of patients with advanced stage and metastatic malignant melanoma. Immune checkpoint inhibitors, BRAF/MEK inhibitors, and other revolutionary therapies have demonstrated remarkable success in the treatment of this common malignancy. Along with these advancements in systemic therapies, imaging has continued to play a critical role in the diagnosis and follow-up of patients with malignant melanoma. As the use of these novel therapies continues to expand, knowledge of the evolving therapeutic landscape of melanoma is becoming critical for radiologists. In this review, we provide a primer for radiologists outlining the evolution of immunotherapy and targeted therapy in the treatment of melanoma. We discuss the critical role of imaging in evaluation of treatment response, including a summary of current imaging response guidelines. Last, we summarize the essential role of imaging in the evaluation of potential adverse events seen in patients with malignant melanoma undergoing treatment with immune checkpoint inhibitors.", "substances": ["Antineoplastic Agents", "Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors"]}, {"pmid": "35580707", "year": "2022", "title": "Drug repurposing: An emerging strategy in alleviating skin cancer.", "summary": "Skin cancer is one of the most common forms of cancer. Several million people are estimated to have affected with this condition worldwide. Skin cancer generally includes melanoma and non-melanoma with the former being the most dangerous. Chemotherapy has been one of the key therapeutic strategies employed in the treatment of skin cancer, especially in advanced stages of the disease. It could be also used as an adjuvant with other treatment modalities depending on the type of skin cancer. However, there are several shortfalls associated with the use of chemotherapy such as non-selectivity, tumour resistance, life-threatening toxicities, and the exorbitant cost of medicines. Furthermore, new drug discovery is a lengthy and costly process with minimal likelihood of success. Thus, drug repurposing (DR) has emerged as a new avenue where the drug approved formerly for the treatment of one disease can be used for the treatment of another disease like cancer. This approach is greatly beneficial over the de novo approach in terms of time and cost. Moreover, there is minimal risk of failure of repurposed therapeutics in clinical trials. There are a considerable number of studies that have reported on drugs repurposed for the treatment of skin cancer. Thus, the present manuscript offers a comprehensive overview of drugs that have been investigated as repurposing candidates for the efficient treatment of skin cancers mainly melanoma and its oncogenic subtypes, and non-melanoma. The prospects of repurposing phytochemicals against skin cancer are also discussed. Furthermore, repurposed drug delivery via topical route and repurposed drugs in clinical trials are briefed. Based on the findings from the reported studies discussed in this manuscript, drug repurposing emerges to be a promising approach and thus is expected to offer efficient treatment at a reasonable cost in devitalizing skin cancer.", "substances": ["Pharmaceutical Preparations"]}, {"pmid": "35534670", "year": "2022", "title": "Melanoma Brain Metastases: An Update on the Use of Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors and Molecularly Targeted Agents.", "summary": "Brain metastases from melanoma are no longer uniformly associated with dismal outcomes. Impressive tumor tissue-based (craniotomy) translational research has consistently shown that distinct patient subgroups may have a favorable prognosis. This review provides a historical overview of the standard-of-care treatments until the early 2010s. It subsequently summarizes more recent advances in understanding the biology of melanoma brain metastases (MBMs)\u00a0and treating patients with MBMs, mainly focusing upon prospective clinical trials of BRAF/MEK and PD-1/CTLA-4 inhibitors in patients with previously untreated MBMs. These additional systemic treatments have provided effective complementary treatment approaches and/or\u00a0alternatives to radiation and craniotomy. The current role of radiation therapy, especially in conjunction with systemic therapies, is also discussed through the lens of various retrospective studies. The combined efficacy of systemic treatments with radiation has improved overall survival over the last 10 years and has sparked considerable research interest regarding optimal dosing and sequencing of radiation treatments with systemic treatments. Finally, the review describes ongoing clinical trials in patients with MBMs.", "substances": ["Antineoplastic Agents", "Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors"]}, {"pmid": "35445563", "year": "2022", "title": "Consideration of possible effects of vitamin D on established cancer, with reference to malignant melanoma.", "summary": "Epidemiological studies indicate that Vitamin D has a beneficial, inhibitory effect on cancer development and subsequent progression, including melanoma (MM), and favourable MM outcome has been reported as directly related to vitamin D<sub>3</sub> status, assessed by serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D<sub>3</sub> (25[OH]D<sub>3</sub> ) levels taken at diagnosis. It has been recommended that MM patients with deficient levels of 25(OH)D<sub>3</sub> be given vitamin D<sub>3</sub> . We examine possible beneficial or detrimental effects of treating established cancer with vitamin D<sub>3</sub> . We consider the likely biological determinants of cancer outcome, the reported effects of vitamin D<sub>3</sub> on these in both cancerous and non-cancerous settings, and how the effect of vitamin D<sub>3</sub> might change depending on the integrity of tumour vitamin D receptor (VDR) signalling. We would argue that the effect of defective tumour VDR signalling could result in loss of suppression of growth, reduction of anti-tumour immunity, with potential antagonism of the elimination phase and enhancement of the escape phase of tumour immunoediting, possibly increased angiogenesis but continued suppression of inflammation. In animal models, having defective VDR signalling, vitamin D<sub>3</sub> administration decreased survival and increased metastases. Comparable studies in man are lacking but in advanced disease, a likely marker of defective VDR signalling, studies have shown modest or no improvement in outcome with some evidence of worsening. Work is needed in assessing the integrity of tumour VDR signalling and the safety of vitamin D<sub>3</sub> supplementation when defective.", "substances": ["Receptors, Calcitriol", "Vitamin D"]}, {"pmid": "32243282", "year": "2022", "title": "BILATERAL SEROUS RETINAL DETACHMENT AND UVEITIS ASSOCIATED WITH PEMBROLIZUMAB TREATMENT IN METASTATIC MELANOMA.", "summary": "Pembrolizumab therapy may cause the development of panuveitis, papillitis, and serous retinal detachment, symptoms which are able to be controlled with lengthy steroid therapy.", "substances": ["Antibodies, Monoclonal, Humanized", "Antineoplastic Agents, Immunological", "Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors", "pembrolizumab"]}, {"pmid": "35702037", "year": "2022", "title": "The pharmacotherapeutic management of nail unit and acral melanomas.", "summary": "Programmed cell death protein 1 inhibitors are more efficacious than cytotoxic T lymphocyte-associated antigen-4 blockers in acral and nail unit melanomas, although both are well-tolerated. Tyrosine kinase inhibitors have good clinical activity, however, data on safety is relatively limited. There is minimal data on high dose interferon \u03b1-2b and cyclin-dependent kinase 4 and 6 inhibitors, and efficacy and safety must be evaluated in future trials before they can be recommended for use in this patient population. Prospective clinical trials on acral and nail unit melanomas are lacking, and must be performed in large patient populations, with international collaboration likely necessary in order to enroll adequate participants.", "substances": ["Antineoplastic Agents"]}, {"pmid": "35339277", "year": "2022", "title": "A Commotion in the Skin: Developing Melanoma Immunotherapies.", "summary": "Melanomas are malignant tumors that can partly and very rarely completely regress in response to immune responses. Analyzing the mechanisms underlying this immune-mediated rejection, melanomas became leading in developing general cancer immunotherapy. This resulted in the discovery of tumor-specific neoantigens and mutations autoantigens, now called tumor-associated antigens, and their specific recognition by cytotoxic T lymphocytes. Melanomas were of key importance for the development of adoptive T-cell therapy and active tumor vaccines, namely dendritic cell vaccines. Melanoma therapy with antibodies against CTLA-4 provided the proof of concept that solid cancers can be susceptible to cancer immunotherapy, and melanoma therapy with antibodies against PD-1 resulted in the clinical breakthrough of cancer immunotherapy. Still, about half of patients die from metastatic melanoma. Combining anti\u2012PD-1 with anti\u2012CTLA-4 antibodies to increase antitumor immune responses or with targeted therapy improves the overall survival only partially. Recent data revealed a close link between defects in the IFN-\u03b3\u2012dependent induction of cell cycle control genes and resistance to immunotherapy, which may allow for identifying those patients that respond to immunotherapy and to develop novel therapies, combining cancer immunotherapy with cell cycle inhibitors.", "substances": ["Antigens, Neoplasm"]}, {"pmid": "35742834", "year": "2022", "title": "The Treatment of Advanced Melanoma: Therapeutic Update.", "summary": "Cutaneous melanoma is the main cause of death for skin cancer. The majority of patients with a diagnosis of melanoma have localized disease, which can be successfully treated with surgical treatment. However, the surgical approach is not curative for advanced melanoma (AM). Indeed, the management of AM is still challenging, since melanoma is the solid tumor with the highest number of mutations and cancer cells have the capacity to evade the immune system. In the past, the treatment of AM relied on chemotherapeutic agents, without showing efficacy data. Recent knowledge on melanoma pathogenesis as well as the introduction of immunotherapies, targeted therapies vaccines, small molecules, and combination therapies has revolutionized AM management, showing promising results in terms of effectiveness and safety. The aim of this review is to assess and to discuss the role of emerging therapies for AM management in order to obtain a complete overview of the currently available treatment options and future perspectives.", "substances": ["Antineoplastic Agents"]}, {"pmid": "35640148", "year": "2022", "title": "Combining Activity Profiling with Advanced Annotation to Accelerate the Discovery of Natural Products Targeting Oncogenic Signaling in Melanoma.", "summary": "The discovery of bioactive natural products remains a time-consuming and challenging task. The ability to link high-confidence metabolite annotations in crude extracts with activity would be highly beneficial to the drug discovery process. To address this challenge, HPLC-based activity profiling and advanced UHPLC-HRMS/MS metabolite profiling for annotation were combined to leverage the information obtained from both approaches on a crude extract scaled down to the submilligram level. This strategy was applied to a subset of an extract library screening aiming to identify natural products inhibiting oncogenic signaling in melanoma. Advanced annotation and data organization enabled the identification of compounds that were likely responsible for the activity in the extracts. These compounds belonged to two different natural product scaffolds, namely, brevipolides from a <i>Hyptis brevipes</i> extract and methoxylated flavonoids identified in three different extracts of <i>Hyptis</i> and <i>Artemisia</i> spp. Targeted isolation of these prioritized compounds led to five brevipolides and seven methoxylated flavonoids. Brevipolide A (<b>1</b>) and 6-methoxytricin (<b>9</b>) were the most potent compounds from each chemical class and displayed AKT activity inhibition with an IC<sub>50</sub> of 17.6 \u00b1 1.6 and 4.9 \u00b1 0.2 \u03bcM, respectively.", "substances": ["Biological Products", "Flavonoids", "Plant Extracts"]}, {"pmid": "35377859", "year": "2022", "title": "Efficacy and safety of angiogenesis inhibitors in melanoma: a meta-analysis of seven randomized controlled trials.", "summary": "Little is known about the efficacy and safety of angiogenesis inhibitor therapy in patients with melanoma. The objective of this study was to assess the possible benefits and harms of angiogenesis inhibitor therapy in patients with melanoma. Electronic databases of PubMed and Web of Science were searched from inception to January 2020. Randomized controlled trials (RCTs) that investigated the efficacy and safety of angiogenesis inhibitor therapy in patients with melanoma were included. Primary outcomes were overall survival (OS) and progression-free survival (PFS), reported as hazard ratios (HRs). Secondary outcomes were disease control, objective response, and adverse events, reported as odds ratios (ORs), and trial sequential analysis (TSA) was also performed. We identified seven trials with 3185 patients. There was no significant difference in OS [HR, 0.99; 95% confidence interval (CI), 0.90-1.09] or PFS (HR, 0.91; 95% CI, 0.83-1.00) between the treatment groups. No significant effect of angiogenesis inhibitor therapy was identified on disease control (OR, 1.23; 95% CI, 0.97-1.55) or objective response (OR, 1.27; 95% CI, 0.99-1.62). TSA showed that the sample size for analysis of disease control was sufficient. Additionally, angiogenesis inhibitor therapy increased risks of hypertension, neurological symptoms, and diarrhea. Angiogenesis inhibitor therapy makes no significant improvement in OS or PFS in patients with melanoma and even causes an increased risk of important adverse events. Therefore, angiogenesis inhibitor therapy is not recommended for the treatment of melanoma.", "substances": ["Angiogenesis Inhibitors"]}, {"pmid": "35190695", "year": "2022", "title": "Future perspectives of uveal melanoma blood based biomarkers.", "summary": "Uveal melanoma (UM) is the most common primary intraocular malignancy affecting adults. Despite successful local treatment of the primary tumour, metastatic disease develops in up to 50% of patients. Metastatic UM carries a particularly poor prognosis, with no effective therapeutic option available to date. Genetic studies of UM have demonstrated that cytogenetic features, including gene expression, somatic copy number alterations and specific gene mutations can allow more accurate assessment of metastatic risk. Pre-emptive therapies to avert metastasis are being tested in clinical trials in patients with high-risk UM. However, current prognostic methods require an intraocular tumour biopsy, which is a highly invasive procedure carrying a risk of vision-threatening complications and is limited by sampling variability. Recently, a new diagnostic concept known as \"liquid biopsy\" has emerged, heralding a substantial potential for minimally invasive genetic characterisation of tumours. Here, we examine the current evidence supporting the potential of blood circulating tumour cells (CTCs), circulating tumour DNA (ctDNA), microRNA (miRNA) and exosomes as biomarkers for UM. In particular, we discuss the potential of these biomarkers to aid clinical decision making throughout the management of UM patients.", "substances": ["Biomarkers, Tumor", "DNA, Neoplasm"]}, {"pmid": "35587650", "year": "2022", "title": "Plain language summary of the HERO study comparing relugolix with leuprolide for men with advanced prostate cancer.", "summary": "", "substances": ["Antibodies, Monoclonal, Humanized", "Antineoplastic Agents, Hormonal", "Ipilimumab", "Phenylurea Compounds", "Pyrimidinones", "relugolix", "Testosterone", "pembrolizumab", "Leuprolide"]}, {"pmid": "35187675", "year": "2022", "title": "Skin cancer, including related pathways and therapy and the role of luteolin derivatives as potential therapeutics.", "summary": "Cutaneous malignant melanoma is the fastest growing and the most aggressive form of skin cancer that is diagnosed. However, its incidence is relatively scarce compared to the highest mortality rate of all skin cancers. The much more common skin cancers include nonmelanoma malignant skin cancers. Moreover, over the past several decades, the frequency of all skin cancers has increased much more dynamically than that of almost any other type of cancer. Among the available therapeutic options for skin cancers, chemotherapy used immediately after the surgical intervention has been an essential element. Unfortunately, the main problem with conventional chemopreventive regimens involves the lack of response to treatment and the associated side effects. Hence, there is a need for much more effective anticancer drugs. Correspondingly, the targeted alternatives have involved phytochemicals, which are safer chemotherapeutic agents and exhibit competitive anticancer activity with high therapeutic efficacy. Among polyphenolic compounds, some flavonoids and their derivatives, which are mostly found in medicinal plants, have been demonstrated to influence the modulation of signaling pathways at each stage of the carcinogenesis process, which is also important in the context of skin cancers. Hence, this review focuses on an exhaustive overview of the therapeutic effects of luteolin and its derivatives in the treatment and prevention of skin cancers. The bioavailability and structure-activity relationships of luteolin derivatives are also discussed. This review is the first such complete account of all of the scientific reports concerning this particular group of natural compounds that target a specific area of neoplastic diseases.", "substances": ["Antineoplastic Agents", "Phytochemicals", "Luteolin"]}, {"pmid": "27100429", "year": "2016", "title": "Meta-Analysis of the Safety and Efficacy of Interferon Combined With Dacarbazine Versus Dacarbazine Alone in Cutaneous Malignant Melanoma.", "summary": "The aim of this study was to compare the efficacy and safety of interferon (IFN) combined with dacarbazine (DTIC) (experimental group) versus DTIC alone (control group) in cutaneous malignant melanoma. After searching all available databases, eligible articles were identified and subjected to quality assessment. Meta-analysis was performed using RevMan 5.3; combined relative risk (RR) and 95% confidence intervals (95% CIs) were calculated for survival rates, response rates, and adverse events. Eight randomized controlled trials published between 1990 and 2014 involving 795 patients were included in the meta-analysis. Compared with DTIC alone, IFN combined with DTIC significantly increased the overall response rate (RR\u200a=\u200a1.59, 95% CI 1.21-2.08, P\u200a=\u200a0.0008),the complete response rate (RR\u200a=\u200a3.30, 95% CI 1.89-5.76, P\u200a<\u200a0.0001), 2-year survival (RR\u200a=\u200a1.59, 95% CI 0.99-2.54, P\u200a=\u200a0.050) grade \u22653 hematologic toxicity (RR\u200a=\u200a2.30, 95% CI 1.32-4.02, P\u200a=\u200a0.003), neurotoxicity (RR\u200a=\u200a18.15, 95% CI 5.34-61.74, P\u200a<\u200a0.00001), and flu-like symptoms (RR\u200a=\u200a6.31, 95% CI 1.95-20.39, P\u200a=\u200a0.002). The partial response rate, grade \u22653 nausea and vomiting, treatment-related, and 1- and 3-year survival were not significantly different between IFN combined with DTIC and DTIC alone. IFN combined with DTIC may moderately improve the complete response rate, but increases the incidence of adverse events and has no significant effect on 1- and 3-year survival in cutaneous malignant melanoma.", "substances": ["Antineoplastic Agents, Alkylating", "Immunologic Factors", "Interferon-alpha", "Dacarbazine"]}, {"pmid": "26986169", "year": "2016", "title": "The Efficacy and Safety of Programmed Cell Death 1 and Programmed Cell Death 1 Ligand Inhibitors for Advanced Melanoma: A Meta-Analysis of Clinical Trials Following the PRISMA Guidelines.", "summary": "The purpose of this study was to investigate the efficacy and safety of programmed cell death 1 (PD-1) and programmed cell death 1 ligand (PD-L1) inhibitors using a meta-analysis of present trials for advanced melanoma. A fully recursive literature search of the primary electronic databases for available trials was performed. The objective response rate (ORR) and the median progression-free survival (PFS) of clinical responses were considered the main endpoints to evaluate the efficacy, whereas Grade 3-4 adverse effects (AEs) were analyzed to evaluate safety. The ORR of PD-1 and PD-L1 inhibitors was 30% (95% CI: 25-35%). No significant difference in the ORR was observed after the comparisons of low-dose, median-dose, and high-dose cohorts. In addition, the rate of Grade 3-4 AEs was 9% (95% CI: 6-12%). According to the 3 randomized controlled trials that compared PD-1 inhibitors with chemotherapy, the difference between these 2 groups was found to be statistically significant with respect to the ORR, PFS and the incidence of Grade 3-4 AEs; that is, the relative risk (RR) of the ORR was 3.42 (95% CI: 2.49-4.69, P\u200a<\u200a0.001), the hazard ratio (HR) of the PFS was 0.50 (95% CI: 0.44-0.58, P\u200a<\u200a0.001), and the RR of Grade 3-4 AEs was 0.45 (95% CI: 0.31-0.65, P\u200a<\u200a0.001). According to a meta-analysis of limited concurrent studies, PD-1 and PD-L1 inhibitors appear to be associated with improved response rates, superior response durability and tolerable toxicity in patients with advanced melanoma.", "substances": ["Antibodies, Monoclonal", "Antibodies, Monoclonal, Humanized", "Antineoplastic Agents", "B7-H1 Antigen", "CD274 protein, human", "PDCD1 protein, human", "Programmed Cell Death 1 Receptor", "Nivolumab", "pidilizumab", "pembrolizumab"]}, {"pmid": "35544345", "year": "2022", "title": "Hernandezine Regulates Proliferation and Autophagy-Induced Apoptosis in Melanoma Cells.", "summary": "Hernandezine is isolated from an herbal medicine that selectively inhibits multidrug resistance and improves the efficacy of drugs for cancer treatment. To date, no studies on hernandezine in melanoma have been conducted. In this study, hernandezine was found to inhibit proliferation and induce apoptosis in melanoma A375 cells and B16 cells. In hernandezine-treated melanoma cells, G0/G1 cycle arrest occurred accompanied by significantly downregulated levels of phosphorylated JAK2 and STAT3. In addition, the cycle arrest could be enhanced by AG490 (JAK2 inhibitor), suggesting that the JAK2/STAT3 pathway is involved in cell cycle regulation in hernandezine-treated melanoma cells. Hernandezine-treated melanoma cells exhibited autophagy-specific structures, autophagy markers (LC3II/LC3-I), and autophagic flow over time. Moreover, 3-MA (autophagy inhibitor) significantly inhibited apoptosis, indicating that hernandezine promotes apoptosis by inducing autophagy. Combined with differential expression of P-AMPK, P-ACC (downstream targets of adenine monophosphate activated protein kinase, AMPK), and P-p70S6K (downstream targets of mammalian target of rapamycin, mTOR) and significant inhibition of apoptosis by AMPK inhibitor complex C (CC) in hernandezine-treated melanoma cells suggested that hernandezine could induce autophagy via the AMPK-mTOR pathway, thereby inducing apoptosis. This study first analyzed the effect of melanoma cells by hernandezine and provided a theory for hernandezine in the treatment of melanoma.", "substances": ["Benzylisoquinolines", "hernandezine", "TOR Serine-Threonine Kinases", "AMP-Activated Protein Kinases"]}, {"pmid": "35359259", "year": "2022", "title": "Long-Term Outcomes of Immune Checkpoint Inhibition in Metastatic Melanoma.", "summary": "Increasing knowledge about the biology of melanoma and of immunology has led to the development and regulatory approval of the immune checkpoint inhibitors ipilimumab, nivolumab, and pembrolizumab, which are indicated for the treatment of melanoma irrespective of the B-Raf proto-oncogene mutation status of the tumour. Only a subset of patients will respond, but those who do can expect long-lasting, previously unheard-of responses. Long-term survival results for the registration trials, including CheckMate 067, Keynote-006, and Keynote-001, have recently been published. In particular, the combination of ipilimumab and nivolumab showed an impressive 5-year overall survival of just over 50%. However, toxicity remains a significant concern, with some of the side effects being life threatening and/or life changing. In this review, we discuss the safety and efficacy data of all the agents currently approved for the first-line treatment of advanced melanoma, identifying factors that influence the choice of a single agent rather than combination therapy. We highlight the potential biomarkers of response, effects of long-term toxicity, and options after progression.", "substances": ["Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors", "Ipilimumab", "Nivolumab", "Proto-Oncogene Proteins B-raf"]}, {"pmid": "35241833", "year": "2022", "title": "A decade of checkpoint blockade immunotherapy in melanoma: understanding the molecular basis for immune sensitivity and resistance.", "summary": "Ten years since the immune checkpoint inhibitor ipilimumab was approved for advanced melanoma, it is time to reflect on the lessons learned regarding modulation of the immune system to treat cancer and on novel approaches to further extend the efficacy of current and emerging immunotherapies. Here, we review the studies that led to our current understanding of the melanoma immune microenvironment in humans and the mechanistic work supporting these observations. We discuss how this information is guiding more precise analyses of the mechanisms of action of immune checkpoint blockade and novel immunotherapeutic approaches. Lastly, we review emerging evidence supporting the negative impact of melanoma metabolic adaptation on anti-tumor immunity and discuss how to counteract such mechanisms for more successful use of immunotherapy.", "substances": ["Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors", "Ipilimumab"]}, {"pmid": "34254900", "year": "2022", "title": "Predictive factors of neoadjuvant immune checkpoint blockade in melanoma.", "summary": "This review describes the current body of literature and ongoing clinical trials examining neoadjuvant immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICI) for patients with resectable stage III and IV melanoma. Based on prior success in treating metastatic melanoma and as adjuvant therapy, ICIs are being explored in the neoadjuvant setting. There have been initial trials and there are many ongoing trials examining neoadjuvant ICI. Herein, we will review the clinical feasibility and efficacy of various neoadjuvant ICI regimens, explore pathologic and cellular responses, and present factors associated with predictive tumor response.", "substances": ["Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors"]}, {"pmid": "35818856", "year": "2022", "title": "The role of systemic therapy in melanoma brain metastases: a narrative review.", "summary": "The historically poor outcomes for MBM patients have been transformed with the advent of effective systemic therapies including ICIs and BRAF/MEK inhibitors. An improved understanding of the molecular and immunogenomic characterization of MBMs has provided new targets that are being exploited in the clinic.", "substances": ["Protein Kinase Inhibitors", "Proto-Oncogene Proteins B-raf", "Mitogen-Activated Protein Kinase Kinases"]}, {"pmid": "35724388", "year": "2022", "title": "[mmunotherapy of cutaneous melanoma - update 2022].", "summary": "Melanoma treatment has been revolutionized during the last decade. Currently first line therapeutic options for advanced melanoma include immunotherapy with anti-PD-1 antibodies (combination of PD-1 and CTLA-4 blockers should be an option in a selected group of patients) or targeted therapy with BRAF and MEK inhibitors in BRAF V600 mutated tumors. This review aims to summarize long-term survival data of immunotherapy in cutaneous melanoma and to show possible directions of development in combined oncological modalities.", "substances": ["Protein Kinase Inhibitors", "Proto-Oncogene Proteins B-raf", "Mitogen-Activated Protein Kinase Kinases"]}, {"pmid": "35272485", "year": "2022", "title": "STARBOARD: encorafenib\u00a0+\u00a0binimetinib\u00a0+ pembrolizumab for first-line metastatic/unresectable <i>BRAF</i> V600-mutant melanoma.", "summary": "Despite the significant progress in the treatment of unresectable or metastatic <i>BRAF</i> V600-mutant melanoma, there remains two primary treatment options: targeted therapy and immunotherapy. Targeted therapy or immunotherapy alone is associated with efficacy limitations including efficacy limited to select patient subsets. With separate mechanisms of action and different response patterns, the combination of targeted agents and immunotherapy to treat patients with <i>BRAF</i> V600-mutant melanoma may further improve patient outcomes. Current treatment guidelines recommend treatment with targeted agents alone, immunotherapy, or the combination of targeted agents and immunotherapy. The randomized, double-blind STARBOARD trial aims to evaluate efficacy and safety of encorafenib, binimetinib and pembrolizumab in treatment-naive patients with metastatic or unresectable locally advanced <i>BRAF V600</i>-mutant melanoma in comparison to pembrolizumab.", "substances": ["Antibodies, Monoclonal, Humanized", "Benzimidazoles", "Carbamates", "Protein Kinase Inhibitors", "Sulfonamides", "binimetinib", "encorafenib", "pembrolizumab", "BRAF protein, human", "Proto-Oncogene Proteins B-raf"]}, {"pmid": "35563772", "year": "2022", "title": "Novel Therapeutic Approaches with DNA Damage Response Inhibitors for Melanoma Treatment.", "summary": "Targeted therapies against components of the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway and immunotherapies, which block immune checkpoints, have shown important clinical benefits in melanoma patients. However, most patients develop resistance, with consequent disease relapse. Therefore, there is a need to identify novel therapeutic approaches for patients who are resistant or do not respond to the current targeted and immune therapies. Melanoma is characterized by homologous recombination (HR) and DNA damage response (DDR) gene mutations and by high replicative stress, which increase the endogenous DNA damage, leading to the activation of DDR. In this review, we will discuss the current experimental evidence on how DDR can be exploited therapeutically in melanoma. Specifically, we will focus on PARP, ATM, CHK1, WEE1 and ATR inhibitors, for which preclinical data as single agents, taking advantage of synthetic lethal interactions, and in combination with chemo-targeted-immunotherapy, have been growing in melanoma, encouraging the ongoing clinical trials. The overviewed data are suggestive of considering DDR inhibitors as a valid therapeutic approach, which may positively impact the future of melanoma treatment.", "substances": ["Poly(ADP-ribose) Polymerase Inhibitors", "Protein Kinase Inhibitors"]}, {"pmid": "35377102", "year": "2022", "title": "Multi-target combinatory strategy to overcome tumor immune escape.", "summary": "Immune therapy has become the fourth approach after surgery, chemotherapy, and radiotherapy in cancer treatment. Many immune checkpoints were identified in the last decade since ipilimumab, which is the first immune checkpoint inhibitor to cytotoxic T-lymphocyte associated protein 4, had been approved by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for the treatment of unresectable or metastatic melanoma in 2011. The use of several antibody drugs that target PD1/PD-L1 for various cancer treatments has been approved by the FDA. However, fewer people are benefitting from immune checkpoint inhibitor treatment in solid cancers. Approximately 80% of patients do not respond appropriately because of primary or acquired therapeutic resistance. Along with the characterization of more immune checkpoints, the combinatory treatment of multiimmune checkpoint inhibitors becomes a new option when monotherapy could not receive a good response. In this work, the author focuses on the combination therapy of multiple immune checkpoints (does not include targeted therapy of oncogenes or chemotherapy), introduces the current progression of multiple immune checkpoints and their related inhibitors, and discusses the advantages of combination therapy, as well as the risk of immune-related adverse events.", "substances": ["Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors"]}, {"pmid": "35254329", "year": "2022", "title": "Efficacy of radiotherapy combined with immune checkpoint inhibitors in patients with melanoma: a systemic review and meta-analysis.", "summary": "The purpose of this study is to review the efficacy of radiotherapy combined with immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) in the treatment of melanoma and systematically evaluate the efficacy and safety of this combined treatment compared with ICIs alone. We searched a number of online databases up to 1 July 2021. Comprehensive Meta-Analysis 2.0 and RevMan 5.0 were used for summary analysis. The overall survival (OS), progression-free survival (PFS), overall response rate (ORR) and treatment adverse effects (AEs) were calculated. In total, 624 patients were included from 12 studies, including nine published studies and the results of three clinical trials. Radiotherapy combined with ICIs had a higher ORR compared with ICIs alone (35.00 vs. 20.39%). In terms of survival effect, radiotherapy combined with ICIs had no obvious advantage in OS. There was no statistically significant difference between 6-month and 12-month OS (P\u2009=\u20090.13; P\u2009=\u20090.69). There was no significant difference in PFS at 6\u2009months (P\u2009=\u20090.08), but there was a significant difference in PFS at 12\u2009months (P\u2009=\u20090.005). For patients with melanoma, radiotherapy combined with ICIs can improve the effective rate of treatment. Although there is no obvious OS advantage, it can improve PFS without serious adverse effects. Most of the studies included in this article are retrospective analyses, and there are few randomized controlled studies at present. Therefore, more prospective studies are still needed to explore the efficacy of radiotherapy combined with immunotherapy in melanoma.", "substances": ["Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors"]}, {"pmid": "35231173", "year": "2022", "title": "High-Content Screening Pipeline for Natural Products Targeting Oncogenic Signaling in Melanoma.", "summary": "The incidence of melanoma, the most fatal dermatological cancer, has dramatically increased over the last few decades. Modern targeted therapy with kinase inhibitors induces potent clinical responses, but drug resistance quickly develops. Combination therapy improves treatment outcomes. Therefore, novel inhibitors targeting aberrant proliferative signaling in melanoma via the MAPK/ERK and PI3K/AKT pathways are urgently needed. Biosensors were combined that report on ERK/AKT activity with image-based high-content screening and HPLC-based activity profiling. An in-house library of 2576 plant extracts was screened on two melanoma cell lines with different oncogenic mutations leading to pathological ERK/AKT activity. Out of 140 plant extract hits, 44 were selected for HPLC activity profiling. Active thymol derivatives and piperamides from <i>Arnica montana</i> and <i>Piper nigrum</i> were identified that inhibited pathological ERK and/or AKT activity. The pipeline used enabled an efficient identification of natural products targeting oncogenic signaling in melanoma.", "substances": ["Biological Products", "Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-akt"]}, {"pmid": "35172589", "year": "2022", "title": "Tebentafusp for the treatment of metastatic uveal melanoma.", "summary": "Uveal melanoma is a rare disease; nevertheless, it is the most common primary intraocular malignancy among adults. Approximately half of affected patients will suffer from metastatic disease, mostly to the liver. No standard-of-care treatment exists for these patients. Median progression-free survival and overall survival for all types of treatment, including checkpoint inhibitors, have remained poor. However, the most recent phase III study results for tebentafusp, a member of a new-in-class molecule, are raising hopes for stage IV uveal melanoma patients. In this review, we examine the current literature, focusing on the most recent trial results for this new reagent. We evaluate the latest clinical results for tebentafusp and aim to shed light on its immunological strategy.", "substances": ["Recombinant Fusion Proteins", "tebentafusp"]}, {"pmid": "35146544", "year": "2022", "title": "[Sun protection of human skin: from\u00a0A to\u00a0Z].", "summary": "Solar radiation contains about 6.8% ultraviolet (UV) radiation. UV radiation is still regarded as one of the most important risk factors for both nonmelanoma skin cancer (NMSC; predominantly basal cell carcinoma and squamous cell carcinoma) and malignant melanoma (MM). To avoid induction and persistence of UV-induced mutations, our skin is armed with an arsenal of endogenous protective mechanisms such as induction of cell cycle arrest, repair mechanisms, immunosurveillance and the initiation of various types of cell death. Exogenous sun protection includes a\u00a0range of behaviors such as avoiding extensive sun exposure, wearing UV-proof clothing and appropriate application of topical sunscreens.", "substances": ["Sunscreening Agents"]}, {"pmid": "35397089", "year": "2022", "title": "Neoadjuvant Immune Checkpoint Inhibitor Therapy in Melanoma: Efficacy, Safety and Timing.", "summary": "The introduction of effective systemic therapies has significantly changed the treatment of stage III and IV melanoma. Both immune checkpoint inhibitors and targeted therapies have improved recurrence-free survival in the adjuvant setting. Recent interest has sparked for neoadjuvant systemic therapy with immune checkpoint inhibitors. The intended benefit of pre-operative treatment with immunotherapy is amongst others to enable tailoring of the surgery and adjuvant systemic therapy according to the treatment response. Most importantly, recurrence-free survival might be improved by neoadjuvant systemic therapy over the current standard of care of surgery followed by adjuvant systemic therapy. The first phase I and II trials investigating anti-PD1 inhibitors, both as a single agent and in combination with anti-CTLA-4 inhibitors or other therapeutic agents, have shown promising results. Pathological complete response on neoadjuvant systemic therapy seems a valid surrogate endpoint for relapse-free and overall survival. Pathological complete response rates in these trials vary between 30 and 70%. The optimal dose with respect to efficacy and toxicity and the interval between systemic and surgical treatment remain important issues to address. Accumulating follow-up data and ongoing phase III studies must prove if neoadjuvant systemic therapy is superior to surgery followed by standard-of-care adjuvant therapy.", "substances": ["Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors"]}, {"pmid": "35028720", "year": "2022", "title": "Clinical and pharmacoeconomic impact of subgroup analysis in onco-hematological patients.", "summary": "Subgroup analysis evaluates a health intervention in subpopulations according to a characteristic or factor. It can be useful for generating new hypotheses or conducting new studies. However, subgroup analysis presents several limitations and it should be considered cautiously. The development of new onco-hematological drugs is accelerating in recent years and the impact of subgroup analysis on clinical decision-making is increasing. The interpretation of subgroup analyses can be controversial in some cases, negatively affecting patients and healthcare systems. This work is a review of the clinical and pharmacoeconomic impact of subgroup analysis in onco-hematological patients. The study describes some illustrative examples of inadequate interpretations about subset analysis: combination of pembrolizumab plus chemotherapy in lung cancer, inhibitors of cyclin-dependent kinases in breast cancer, daratumumab-based regimens in newly diagnosed multiple myeloma, combination of nivolumab with ipilimumab in melanoma and docetaxel in prostate cancer. Subgroup analysis can have a significant impact on the data selection for the development of studies; efficacy, safety, and convenience of treatments in onco-hematological patients; efficiency of therapies in health systems; and therapeutic positioning of antineoplastic drugs. There is a strong need to establish homogeneous criteria for the assessment of subgroup analysis and to develop new tools for its consideration.", "substances": ["Antineoplastic Agents", "Ipilimumab", "Nivolumab"]}, {"pmid": "34882516", "year": "2022", "title": "Neoadjuvant immune checkpoint inhibitors in high-risk stage III melanoma.", "summary": "The success of immunotherapy and targeted therapy for metastatic melanoma has generated considerable interest in the adjuvant setting, even though high-risk stage III melanoma (with or without in-transit metastases) still holds a substantial probability of relapse, despite surgical resection and available adjuvant treatments. Based on preclinical and clinical trials in resectable melanoma, immune checkpoint inhibitors can enhance anti-tumor immunity by activating antigen-specific T cells found in the primary site. These tumor-reactive T cells continue to exert their anti-tumor effects on remaining neoplastic cells after resection of the primary tumor, potentially preventing relapses from reoccurring. Several trials in the neoadjuvant setting have been conducted for melanoma patients using checkpoint inhibitors with promising early data, showing an improvement of operability and clinical outcomes. Hence, in this study, we review and discuss the available published and ongoing clinical trials to explore the scientific background behind immunotherapy in the neoadjuvant context.", "substances": ["Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors"]}, {"pmid": "33881961", "year": "2022", "title": "Immune checkpoint inhibitors in adjuvant setting after radical resection of melanoma: a meta-analysis of the pivotal trials.", "summary": "Beyond the overall relapse-free survival (RFS) advantage demonstrated in randomized trials (RCT) of adjuvant anti-PD-1 immunotherapy in radically resected stage III-IV melanoma, key issues about subgroups of interest have been raised in recent years, with non-conclusive results when considering single studies. In the present meta analysis, we pooled all RCT data in this setting, analyzing, overall, 3043 patients. The RFS benefit of adjuvant immunotherapy over the comparator (placebo or anti-CTLA-4) was strongly confirmed in the pooled analysis, and it was statistically significant in most subgroups, excluding patients with stage IIIA and stage IV M1c melanoma. Nevertheless, the relative benefit was not statistically significantly different when considering their IIIB-IIIC and M1a-M1b counterparts. Future trials in this setting should consider subgroups of interest for tailoring the adjuvant strategy in terms of duration and drug combination in light of literature data.", "substances": ["Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors", "Ipilimumab", "Nivolumab"]}, {"pmid": "34927354", "year": "2022", "title": "Eosinophils and melanoma: Implications for immunotherapy.", "summary": "New therapies such as immune checkpoint blockers (ICB) have offered extended survival to patients affected by advanced melanoma. However, ICBs have demonstrated debilitating side effects on the joints, liver, lungs, skin, and gut. Several biomarkers have been identified for their role in predicting which patients better tolerate ICBs. Still, these biomarkers are limited by immunologic and genetic heterogeneity and the complexity of translation into clinical practice. Recent observational studies have suggested eosinophil counts, and serum levels of eosinophil cationic protein are significantly associated with prolonged survival in advanced-stage melanoma. It is likely that eosinophils thereby modulate treatment response through mechanisms yet to be explored. Here, we review the functionality of eosinophils, their oncogenic role in melanoma and discuss how these mechanisms may influence patient response to ICBs and their implications in clinical practice.", "substances": ["Biomarkers"]}], "Carcinoma, Non-Small-Cell Lung": [{"pmid": "36194908", "year": "2022", "title": "Hypofractionated proton therapy for non-small cell lung cancer: Ready for prime time? A systematic review and meta-analysis.", "summary": "Hypofractionated PBT is a safe and effective treatment option for ES-NSCLC; the delivery of BED\u00a0\u2265\u00a0105.6\u00a0Gy(RBE) with advanced techniques for uncertainty management has been associated with improved oncological outcomes across all considered time points.", "substances": ["Protons"]}, {"pmid": "36126410", "year": "2022", "title": "Benefits of combination therapy with immune checkpoint inhibitors and predictive role of tumour mutation burden in hepatocellular carcinoma: A systematic review and meta-analysis.", "summary": "Immune checkpoint inhibitors' combination therapy improved clinical outcomes in the management of advanced hepatocellular carcinoma. However, the overall objective response rate still did not exceed 30%. PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors plus anti-angiogenic agents and dual immunotherapy provided significantly increased survival over sorafenib, which also pose new challenges for future research, and more appropriate and guided control regimens are required. Also, TMB may be a promising prognostic biomarker for immunotherapy in HCC. However, the validation of prospective and large sample studies is needed.", "substances": ["B7-H1 Antigen", "Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors", "Antineoplastic Agents, Immunological", "Sorafenib", "Biomarkers, Tumor"]}, {"pmid": "35947522", "year": "2022", "title": "Efficacy and safety of <i>EGFR</i> inhibitors and radiotherapy in locally advanced non-small-cell lung cancer: a meta-analysis.", "summary": "<b>Aim:</b> To assess the efficacy and safety of <i>EGFR</i> inhibitors combined with (chemo)radiotherapy in unresectable, locally advanced non-small-cell lung cancer. <b>Materials & methods:</b> A systematic review and meta-analysis of prospective trials was performed. <b>Results:</b> Twenty-eight studies of 1640 patients were included. In patients harboring EGFR-sensitive mutations, the pooled objective response rate, 1-year overall survival rate and 1-year progression-free survival rate of EGFR-TKIs\u00a0+ (chemo)radiotherapy were 0.803, 0.766 and 0.554, respectively. Compared with chemoradiotherapy, the addition of <i>EGFR</i> inhibitors did not significantly increase the risk of grade \u22653 pneumonitis and esophagitis. <b>Conclusion:</b> EGFR-tyrosine kinase inhibitors combined with (chemo)radiotherapy are tolerable and the clinical benefit is promising, especially in patients with EGFR-sensitive mutations.", "substances": ["Protein Kinase Inhibitors", "EGFR protein, human", "ErbB Receptors"]}, {"pmid": "35870763", "year": "2022", "title": "Comparison of the efficacy and safety of first-line treatments based on clinicopathological characteristics for patients with advanced epidermal growth factor receptor mutated non-small-cell lung cancer: A systematic review and network meta-analysis.", "summary": "OSI and GEF+PB were the most two effective first-line regimens for overall patients, ranking first in PFS and OS, respectively. GEF+PB ranked first in terms of PFS in subgroups of EGFR 21L858R, ECOG PS=\u00a01, Asian, age <65, and smoking. Meanwhile, AUM in subgroups of EGFR 19DEL, ECOG PS=\u00a00, female, brain metastasis, OSI in the subgroup of without brain metastasis, ICO+PB in no smoking subgroup, and AFA+CET in male subgroup were the best options as for their evident superiority in PFS.", "substances": ["Acrylamides", "Antineoplastic Agents", "Indoles", "Protein Kinase Inhibitors", "Pyrimidines", "ErbB Receptors", "aumolertinib"]}, {"pmid": "36061356", "year": "2022", "title": "The Efficacy of Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors vs. Chemotherapy for KRAS-Mutant or EGFR-Mutant Non-Small-Cell Lung Cancers: A Meta-Analysis Based on Randomized Controlled Trials.", "summary": "This research revealed that individuals with EGFR wild-type NSCLC or KRAS mutation may benefit from PD-L1/PD-1 inhibitors and that PD-L1/PD-1 inhibitors in combination with chemotherapy seem to be more successful than chemotherapy alone in NSCLC patients with EGFR mutation.", "substances": ["B7-H1 Antigen", "Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors", "KRAS protein, human", "EGFR protein, human", "ErbB Receptors", "Proto-Oncogene Proteins p21(ras)"]}, {"pmid": "35435628", "year": "2022", "title": "Toxicity profile of anaplastic lymphoma kinase tyrosine kinase inhibitors for patients with non-small cell lung cancer: A systematic review and meta-analysis.", "summary": "Anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK) inhibitors are commonly used for patients harboring ALK-positive non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). This meta-analysis was conducted to evaluate the toxicity profile of ALK inhibitors.\u00a0Pubmed, Web of Science, Embase, and the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials databases were systematically searched for clinical trials conducted in advanced NSCLC treated with ALK inhibitors. The incidences of pooled adverse events (AEs) were conducted using the random effects model.\u00a0We included 30 studies in the meta-analysis. Almost all patients receiving ALK inhibitor monotherapy occurred at least one AE. The pooled incidences of grade\u2009\u2265\u20093 AEs were 71.3% for ceritinib 750\u00a0mg, 44.6% for crizotinib, 37.4% for alectinib, and 35.3% for ensartinib.\u00a0Only one study each reported the incidence of grade\u2009\u2265\u20093 AEs for brgatinib (72.8%), lorlatinib (72.4%), and ceritinib 450\u00a0mg (64.8%), respectively. The rates of dose reduction due to AEs ranking from high to low were ceritinib 750\u00a0mg, brigatinib, ceritinib 450\u00a0mg, lorlatinib, crizotinib, ensartinib, and alectinib. The rates of treatment discontinuation due to AEs were low, ranging from 3.8% to 10.5%. Gastrointestinal AEs were most common for ceritinib 750\u00a0mg. Hepatic transaminases elevation was mostly observed in ceritinib and brigatinib. Rash frequently occurred for ensartinib. Lorlatinib had a high incidence of hypertriglyceridemia and hypercholesterolemia, which were rarely reported in other ALK inhibitors.\u00a0The incidences of grade\u2009\u2265\u20093 AEs for individual ALK inhibitor were moderately high yet manageable. Different toxicity spectrums were found in each ALK inhibitor.", "substances": ["Lactams, Macrocyclic", "Protein Kinase Inhibitors", "Crizotinib", "Anaplastic Lymphoma Kinase", "Protein-Tyrosine Kinases"]}, {"pmid": "35022907", "year": "2022", "title": "Associations between immune-related thyroid dysfunction and efficacy of immune checkpoint inhibitors: a systematic review and meta-analysis.", "summary": "Despite the heterogeneity and biases identified, the evidence does suggest that the development of thyroid irAE is associated with anti-tumor effects of ICIs and therefore, can be used as a surrogate marker for clinical response.", "substances": ["Biomarkers", "Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors"]}, {"pmid": "35866790", "year": "2022", "title": "The association of efficacy with PD-1/PD-L1 inhibition and tumor mutational burden in advanced nonsmall cell lung cancer: A PRISMA-guided literature review and meta-analysis.", "summary": "Our study found that NSCLC with high TMB who benefit from immunotherapy. The findings suggest that TMB could associated with a greater predictive power of response. Possibly a more TMB-oriented prediction model might gain more benefits from PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors.", "substances": ["B7-H1 Antigen", "Biomarkers, Tumor", "CD274 protein, human", "Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors", "Programmed Cell Death 1 Receptor"]}, {"pmid": "35855055", "year": "2022", "title": "Concomitant Statins and the Survival of Patients with Non-Small-Cell Lung Cancer Treated with Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors: A Meta-Analysis.", "summary": "Statins are suggested to improve cancer survival by possible anti-inflammatory effect. However, it remains unclear if concomitant use of statins could improve the efficacy of immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) in patients with non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Accordingly, a meta-analysis was performed to systematically evaluate the effect of concomitant statins in NSCLC patients receiving ICIs. Relevant studies were obtained by literature search in PubMed, Embase, and Web of Science databases. A conservative random-effect model was used to combine the results. Eight cohorts including 2382 patients were included. The programmed death-1/ligand-1 inhibitors were used in seven studies; while the cytotoxic T-lymphocyte-associated protein 4 inhibitors were used in the other study. It was shown that concomitant use of statin did not significantly affect the progression-free survival (PFS, hazard ratio (HR): 0.86, 95% confidence interval (CI): 0.70 to 1.07, <i>P</i>=0.17; <i>I</i> <sup>2</sup>\u2009=\u200962%) or overall survival (OS, HR: 0.86, 95% CI: 0.74 to 1.01, <i>P</i>=0.07; <i>I</i> <sup>2</sup>\u2009=\u200929%) of NSCLC patients receiving ICIs. Subgroup analyses showed consistent results in studies with univariate or multivariate analytic models (<i>P</i> for subgroup analysis\u2009=\u20090.97 and 0.38 for the outcome of PFS and OS, respectively). In conclusion, concomitant use of statin seemed to have no significant influence on the survival of patients with NSCLC who were treated with ICIs.", "substances": ["Hydroxymethylglutaryl-CoA Reductase Inhibitors", "Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors"]}, {"pmid": "35373580", "year": "2022", "title": "PD-1/L1 inhibitors may increase the risk of pericardial disease in non-small-cell lung cancer patients: a meta-analysis and systematic review.", "summary": "<b>Background:</b> The advent of PD-1/L1 inhibitors has changed the landscape for patients with non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Meanwhile, the\u00a0adverse events\u00a0of PD-1/L1 inhibitors\u00a0have been focused. <b>Methods:</b> The Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials, PubMed and Embase databases and ClinicalTrials.gov were searched from inception to February 2021. <b>Results:</b>\u00a018\u00a0studies involving 11,394 patients with NSCLC were included. PD-1/L1 inhibitor monotherapy was associated (relative risk, 95% confidence interval) with an increased risk of pericardial effusion (2.72 [1.45-5.12]; p\u00a0=\u00a00.002) and cardiac tamponade (2.76 [1.15-6.62]; p\u00a0=\u00a00.023), whereas PD-1/L1 inhibitors combined with chemotherapy did not increase the risk of pericardial effusion and cardiac tamponade (3.08 [0.93-10.21]; p\u00a0=\u00a00.066 and 3.27 [0.37-28.94]; p\u00a0=\u00a00.288, respectively). <b>Conclusion:</b> For patients with NSCLC, treatment with PD-1/L1 inhibitor monotherapy increases the risk of pericardial effusion and cardiac tamponade, but PD-1/L1 inhibitors combined with chemotherapy do not.", "substances": ["B7-H1 Antigen", "Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors", "Programmed Cell Death 1 Receptor"]}, {"pmid": "35187947", "year": "2022", "title": "Efficacy and safety of first-line therapies in <i>EGFR</i>-mutated advanced non-small-cell lung cancer: a network meta-analysis.", "summary": "<b>Aim:</b> To evaluate the comparative efficacy and safety of identified first-line therapies for patients with <i>EGFR</i>\u00a0mutation-positive (<i>EGFR</i>m+) advanced non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC), with a\u00a0focus on ramucirumab\u00a0+\u00a0erlotinib. <b>Methods:</b> In the absence of head-to-head studies, a Bayesian network meta-analysis was conducted using randomized clinical trial data to evaluate first-line systemic therapies with erlotinib/gefitinib as the reference treatment. <b>Results:</b> For progression-free survival, ramucirumab\u00a0+\u00a0erlotinib was comparable to osimertinib and dacomitinib\u00a0in the primary analysis. <b>Conclusion:</b> The analysis showed ramucirumab\u00a0+\u00a0erlotinib efficacy to be comparable to best-in-class treatment options for previously untreated patients with\u00a0<i>EGFR</i>m<sup>+</sup> advanced NSCLC. <b>Registration information:</b> PROSPERO ID: CRD42020136247.", "substances": ["Protein Kinase Inhibitors", "Erlotinib Hydrochloride", "EGFR protein, human", "ErbB Receptors"]}, {"pmid": "34820879", "year": "2022", "title": "Efficacy of targeted therapy in patients with HER2-positive non-small cell lung cancer: A systematic review and meta-analysis.", "summary": "Anti-human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2) therapy is an effective treatment for HER2-positive gastric and breast malignancies. However, the efficacy of HER2-targeted therapy in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients with HER2 alterations remains controversial. We searched studies on HER2-targeted therapy in NSCLC patients that reported objective response rate (ORR), disease control rate (DCR) and progressionfree survival (PFS) published from database inception to 30 May 2021. A total of 32 trials involving 958 patients were included. The ORRs of HER2-TKIs targeted therapy, humanised monoclonal antibody, trastuzumab-based treatment and antibody-drug conjugate (ADC) (T-DM1) were 22% (95% CI 11-31), 23% (95% CI 20-65), 26% (95% CI 14-39) and 16% (95% CI _6-37), while that of ADC (DS-8201) was 60% (95% CI 35-85). The DCRs of these groups were 59% (95% CI 49-69), 39% (95% CI _9-88), 63% (95% CI 37-89), 31% (95% CI 4-58) and 87% (95% CI 62-112), respectively. In the subgroup analysis, numerically higher ORRs and DCRs were observed in the poziotinib (38%; 75%) and pyrotinib (35%; 83%) groups. The median PFSs of these groups were 5.51 months, 3.09 months, 4.61 months, 2.65 months and 12.04 months, respectively. HER2-targeted therapy can be considered an acceptable treatment strategy for NSCLC patients with HER2 alterations. In particular, ADC (DS-8201), pyrotinib and poziotinib demonstrated promising anti-tumour activity in HER2-positive NSCLC.", "substances": ["Antibodies, Monoclonal, Humanized", "Receptor, ErbB-2", "Trastuzumab", "Ado-Trastuzumab Emtansine"]}, {"pmid": "35156837", "year": "2022", "title": "PD-L1 expression as a prognostic marker in patients treated with chemotherapy for metastatic non-small-cell lung cancer.", "summary": "<b>Background:</b> In metastatic non-small-cell lung cancer (mNSCLC), PD-L1 expression is associated with benefit from immune checkpoint inhibitor (ICI) therapy. However, the significance of\u00a0PD-L1 expression\u00a0in chemotherapy-treated patients is uncertain. <b>Methods:</b> Using the chemotherapy control arm of first-line randomized trials, a meta-analysis of the association between efficacy outcomes and PD-L1 status was performed, stratified by assay due to inter-assay differences. <b>Results:</b> Across 12\u00a0trials and 4378 patients, overall survival (OS) was superior in high PD-L1 versus negative tumors\u00a0and low versus negative according to 22C3/28-8 assays. When classified by SP142 assay, no significant difference in response or survival was seen between PD-L1 groups. <b>Conclusion:</b> In mNSCLC, high PD-L1-expressing tumors are associated with longer OS and improved objective rate when treated with chemotherapy. Inter-assay variability impacts outcome results.", "substances": ["B7-H1 Antigen"]}, {"pmid": "35413934", "year": "2022", "title": "I-125 seeds with chemotherapy for progressive non-small-cell lung cancer after first-line treatment: a meta-analysis.", "summary": "This meta-analysis demonstrated that ISB could enhance the clinical efficacy of SLCT in patients with progressive NSCLC after FLT without inducing major toxic side effects.", "substances": ["Antineoplastic Agents", "Iodine Radioisotopes", "Iodine-125"]}, {"pmid": "34617297", "year": "2022", "title": "The efficacy and toxicity of maintenance therapy with bevacizumab plus pemetrexed versus bevacizumab/pemetrexed alone for stage IIIB/IV nonsquamous non-small cell lung cancer: A meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials.", "summary": "For stage IIIB/IV nonsquamous NSCLC patients, maintenance therapy with Bev+Pem offers an increased survival outcome (PFS, OS) compared with monotherapy. However, the increased incidence of AEs should not be neglected.", "substances": ["Antineoplastic Agents", "Drug Combinations", "Pemetrexed", "Bevacizumab"]}, {"pmid": "35685507", "year": "2022", "title": "Concomitant Gastric Acid Suppressants on the Survival of Patients with Non-Small-Cell Lung Cancer Treated with Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor Tyrosine Kinase Inhibitors: A Meta-Analysis.", "summary": "Concomitant use of AS in patients with NSCLC taking TKIs may be associated with poor survival outcomes.", "substances": ["Protein Kinase Inhibitors", "ErbB Receptors"]}, {"pmid": "34994987", "year": "2022", "title": "Targeted therapy for advanced anaplastic lymphoma kinase (<I>ALK</I>)-rearranged non-small cell lung cancer.", "summary": "Next-generation ALK inhibitors including alectinib, brigatinib, and lorlatinib are the preferred first systemic treatment for individuals with advanced ALK-rearranged NSCLC. Further trials are ongoing including investigation of first-line ensartinib. Next-generation inhibitors have not been compared to each other, and it is unknown which should be used first and what subsequent treatment sequence is optimal.", "substances": ["Protein Kinase Inhibitors", "Anaplastic Lymphoma Kinase"]}, {"pmid": "34488513", "year": "2021", "title": "Factors affecting the efficacy and safety of docetaxel combined with platinum in the treatment of advanced non-small cell lung cancer.", "summary": "The docetaxel-platinum regimen has different efficacies in the treatment of advanced NSCLC between East Asian and non-East Asian populations. A better benefit-risk ratio can be obtained with a lower exposure regimen of docetaxel combined with platinum.", "substances": ["Platinum Compounds", "Docetaxel"]}, {"pmid": "34337889", "year": "2021", "title": "Predictive impact of sarcopenia in solid cancers treated with immune checkpoint inhibitors: a meta-analysis.", "summary": "Sarcopenia, which is characterized by a decrease in muscle quantity or quality, is commonly observed in patients with cancer. Recent research has reported contradictory results on the association between sarcopenia and the efficacy of immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs). We conducted a systematic review and meta-analysis to investigate this discrepancy. We systematically searched three electronic databases to identify articles reporting on the association between sarcopenia and treatment outcomes in patients with solid cancers who received ICIs. The outcomes assessed were hazard ratios (HRs) for overall survival (OS) and progression-free survival (PFS), and odds ratios (ORs) for objective response rate (ORR), disease control rate (DCR), and toxicity. Pooled estimates and their 95% confidence intervals (CIs) were calculated. A total of 2501 patients from 26 studies were analysed. Sarcopenia was observed in 44.7% (95% CI: 38.2-51.3) of the patients and was significantly associated with poor survival (HR\u00a0=\u00a01.55, 95% CI\u00a0=\u00a01.32-1.82 for OS and HR\u00a0=\u00a01.61, 95% CI\u00a0=\u00a01.35 to 1.93 for PFS). The HRs (95% CIs) for OS according to the diagnostic measures used were 1.97 (0.88-4.41) for psoas muscle index (PMI), 1.41 (0.87-2.28) for skeletal muscle density (SMD), and 1.43 (1.23-1.67) for skeletal mass index (SMI). The HRs (95% CIs) for PFS were 1.86 (1.08-3.21) for PMI, 1.27 (0.94-1.71) for SMD, and 1.38 (1.11-1.71) for SMI. Poor radiological response to ICI therapy was observed in patients with sarcopenia (OR\u00a0=\u00a00.52, 95% CI\u00a0=\u00a00.34-0.80 for ORR and OR\u00a0=\u00a00.45, 95% CI\u00a0=\u00a00.30-0.67 for DCR). The ORs for ORR (95% CIs) were 0.56 (0.15-2.05) for PMI and 0.78 (0.56-1.09) for SMI. The oncologic outcomes associated with melanoma and non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) were comparable with those observed overall (HR for OS\u00a0=\u00a02.02, 95% CI\u00a0=\u00a01.26-3.24 for melanoma and HR for OS\u00a0=\u00a01.61, 95% CI\u00a0=\u00a01.19-2.18 for NSCLC). In contrast, the occurrence of severe toxicity was not associated with sarcopenia (OR\u00a0=\u00a01.13, 95% CI\u00a0=\u00a00.51-2.52). Poor survival and poor response in patients with sarcopenia indicate a negative association between sarcopenia and efficacy of ICIs. Sarcopenia's predictive ability is consistent across various tumour types. For the selection of patients who may respond to ICIs pre-therapeutically, the presence of sarcopenia should be assessed in clinical practice.", "substances": ["Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors"]}, {"pmid": "34532503", "year": "2021", "title": "The Safety and Effectiveness of Bevacizumab in the Treatment of Nonsquamous Non-Small-Cell Lung Cancer: A Meta-Analysis of Randomized Controlled Trials.", "summary": "This meta-analysis showed that bevacizumab could increase ORR, OS, and prolonged PFS for treatment of NSqNSCLC patients. However, no significant improvement in DCR was observed and bevacizumab could increase the rate of hypertension and hemorrhagic events. Bevacizumab was an acceptable option for NSqNSCLC patients. This trial is registered with <i>PROSPERO registration number</i>: CRD42021226790.", "substances": ["Antibodies, Monoclonal, Humanized", "Bevacizumab"]}, {"pmid": "33798808", "year": "2021", "title": "The efficacy and safety of combination therapy with immune checkpoint inhibitors in non-small cell lung cancer: A meta-analysis.", "summary": "Combination therapy with immune checkpoint inhibitors showed more clinical benefit for patients with NSCLC, with increased grade 3 or higher AEs, but toxicities were manageable.", "substances": ["Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors"]}, {"pmid": "34119658", "year": "2021", "title": "Efficacy and safety of first-generation epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) combined with chemotherapy or antiangiogenic therapy as first-line treatment in patients with EGFR-mutant non-small cell lung cancer: A systematic review and meta-analysis.", "summary": "As a first-line treatment for patients with EGFR-mutated advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), first-generation EGFR-TKIs combined with chemotherapy or antiangiogenic therapy was associated with significant improvement in ORR, DCR, PFS and OS compared with monotherapy.", "substances": ["Angiogenesis Inhibitors", "Protein Kinase Inhibitors", "EGFR protein, human", "ErbB Receptors"]}, {"pmid": "33964931", "year": "2021", "title": "Predictive value of pretreatment PD-L1 expression in EGFR-mutant non-small cell lung cancer: a meta-analysis.", "summary": "The result of this meta-analysis suggested that PD-L1 expression might be a predictive biomarker for EGFR-mutant non-small cell lung cancer treated with EGFR-TKIs.", "substances": ["B7-H1 Antigen", "EGFR protein, human", "ErbB Receptors"]}, {"pmid": "33152129", "year": "2021", "title": "The impact of smoking status on the progression-free survival of non-small cell lung cancer patients receiving molecularly target therapy or immunotherapy versus chemotherapy: A meta-analysis.", "summary": "Smoking status is an important clinical predictor of therapy in NSCLC. Never-smokers and smokers have similar benefit with EGFR-TKIs therapy compared with chemotherapy, while never-smokers have greater benefit after first-line EGFR-TKIs therapy. There was similar benefit in never-smokers and smokers when using ALK inhibitors over chemotherapy. Additionally, ICIs treatment over chemotherapy leads to more favourable PFS in smokers both in first-line and second-line settings.", "substances": ["Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors", "Protein Kinase Inhibitors", "Anaplastic Lymphoma Kinase"]}, {"pmid": "33040676", "year": "2021", "title": "Programmed death-1 or programmed death ligand-1 inhibitors? A meta-analysis of differential efficacy as compared to chemotherapy in advanced non-small cell lung cancer.", "summary": "Efficacy of PD-1 and PDL-1 class of CPIs was not different, although differences among individual CPIs or their combinations cannot be excluded. We were also able to compute pooled efficacy data, as compared to chemotherapy alone, for trials where these groups of CPIs were utilized.", "substances": ["B7-H1 Antigen", "CD274 protein, human", "Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors", "Programmed Cell Death 1 Receptor"]}, {"pmid": "32173463", "year": "2021", "title": "NSCLC Immunotherapy Efficacy and Antibiotic Use: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis.", "summary": "Immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) have dramatically improved patient outcomes in a variety of tumor types, but with variable efficacy. Recent research has suggested that antibiotic-induced disruption of the microbiota may impact ICI efficacy. We performed a systematic review and meta-analysis of studies that assessed the impact of antibiotic use on the survival of patients diagnosed with NSCLC and treated with ICI. We systematically searched Medline, the Cochrane Library, and major oncology conferences proceedings. Eligible studies mentioned hazard ratio or Kaplan-Meier curves for progression-free survival (PFS) or overall survival (OS) based on antibiotic exposure before or during ICI treatment. We identified 23 eligible studies. The impact of antibiotics was then evaluated in 2208 patients for PFS and 5560 for OS. For both PFS and OS meta-analyses, the between-study heterogeneity was high (Higgins and Thompson I<sup>2</sup> of 69% and 80%, respectively). The pooled hazard ratio was 1.47 (95% confidence interval [CI]: 1.13-1.90) for PFS and 1.69 (95% CI: 1.25-2.29) for OS revealing a significantly reduced survival in patients with NSCLC exposed to antibiotics. The median OS was reduced on average by 6.7 months (95% CI: 5.1-8.4) in the patients exposed to antibiotics. The effect seems to depend on the time window of exposure with stronger effects reported when the patients took antibiotics [-60 days;\u00a0+60 days] around ICI initiation. In patients with NSCLC, the findings of the meta-analysis indicate that antibiotic use before or during treatment with ICI leads to a median OS decreased by more than 6 months. Specifically, exposure shortly before or after ICI initiation seems to be particularly detrimental, whereas antibiotic use later during disease course does not seem to alter survival. Because PFS and OS were difficult to compare between studies owing to heterogeneity and the multiple confounding factors identified, further studies are needed to strengthen the understanding of this phenomenon.", "substances": ["Anti-Bacterial Agents"]}, {"pmid": "32313723", "year": "2021", "title": "Identifying optimal first-line interventions for advanced non-small cell lung carcinoma according to PD-L1 expression: a systematic review and network meta-analysis.", "summary": "This network meta-analysis (NMA), based on one phase II and nine phase III studies, involving 6,124 patients with metastatic NSCLC, indirectly compares Atezolizumab + Bevacizumab + chemotherapy (ABC), Atezolizumab + chemotherapy (AC), Pembrolizumab + chemotherapy (PC), Pembrolizumab alone, Bevacizumab + chemotherapy (BC) and chemotherapy alone. Each of these is recommended as front-line interventions, according to the US FDA and the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for advanced NSCLC without EGFR mutation or ALK rearrangement. Studies were identified through PubMed, EMBASE, the Cochrane Library, Medline, and abstracts found in oncology articles. Primary endpoints, i.e., progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) with corresponding hazard ratios (HR), objective response rates (ORR) and adverse event (AEs) with odds risk (OR) were pooled according to frequentist network meta-analytical techniques. PD-L1 expression thresholds, as well as non-squamous/squamous were used to determine subgroups. Immunotherapy plus chemotherapy appeared superior to Pembrolizumab alone for PD-L1-high (i.e., TPS\u226550%) NSCLC patients. BC might also be specifically recommended as an initial first-line treatment for PD-L1-high, non-squamous NSCLC patients, since BC was not inferior to Pembrolizumab alone. PC and ABC might be preferred for NSCLC patients with intermediate PD-L1 (1% \u2264PD-L1, TPS<50%) expression. BC can also be tentatively recommended specifically for PD-L1-intermediate, non-squamous NSCLC patients. Combined immunotherapies can all be recommended for PD-L1-negative (i.e., TPS<1%) NSCLC patients, although especially the ABC combination for non-squamous NSCLC patients, which was superior to PC in regards of PFS. However, PC performed comparable to ABC in the whole population and in all subgroup save this one. More predictive biomarkers could be factored into further analyses to help identifying the most effective treatment regimens for specific patient groups.", "substances": ["B7-H1 Antigen"]}, {"pmid": "31927392", "year": "2020", "title": "RAS and BRAF in the foreground for non-small cell lung cancer and colorectal cancer: Similarities and main differences for prognosis and therapies.", "summary": "Lung and colorectal cancer are included in the most tremendously threatening diseases in terms of incidence and death. Although they are located in completely different organs and differ in various characteristics they do share some common features, especially regarding their molecular mutational profile. Among several commonly mutated genes KRAS and BRAF are spotted to be highly associated with patient's poor disease outcome and resistance to targeted therapies mostly in liaison with other mutant activated genes. Many studies have shed light in these mechanisms for disease progression and numerous preclinical models, clinical trials and meta-analysis reports investigate the impact of specific treatments or combination of therapies. The present review is an effort to compare the mutational imprint of these genes between the two diseases and their impact in prognosis, current therapy, mechanisms of therapy resistance and future therapeutic plans and provide a spherical perspective regarding the systemic molecular profile of cancer.", "substances": ["Antineoplastic Agents", "BRAF protein, human", "Proto-Oncogene Proteins B-raf", "ras Proteins"]}, {"pmid": "30817619", "year": "2019", "title": "TCM therapies combined with chemotherapy for preventing recurrence and metastasis in postoperative II to IIIA NSCLC: A protocol for a systematic review and meta-analysis.", "summary": "", "substances": ["Antineoplastic Agents"]}, {"pmid": "30608384", "year": "2019", "title": "Meta-analysis of overall incidence and risk of ALK inhibitors-induced liver toxicities in advanced non-small-cell lung cancer.", "summary": "The findings of the present study offer substantial evidence that ALK inhibitors treatment in advanced NSCLC significantly increases the risk of developing all-grade and high-grade liver toxicities in comparison with controls. Clinicians should recognize liver toxicities promptly as early interventions may alleviate future complications.", "substances": ["Carbazoles", "Piperidines", "Protein Kinase Inhibitors", "Pyrimidines", "Sulfones", "Crizotinib", "Aspartate Aminotransferases", "Alanine Transaminase", "ALK protein, human", "Anaplastic Lymphoma Kinase", "ceritinib", "alectinib"]}, {"pmid": "30557998", "year": "2019", "title": "S-1 plus cisplatin with concurrent radiotherapy for stage III non-small cell lung cancer: A meta-analysis (PRISMA) of randomized control trials.", "summary": "This meta-analysis of 5 randomized control trails demonstrates that EG results similar OS, PFS, and 1,2,3-year OS, compared with CG, with lower risk of leukocytopenia, neutropenia.", "substances": ["Drug Combinations", "S 1 (combination)", "Tegafur", "Oxonic Acid", "Cisplatin"]}, {"pmid": "30113497", "year": "2018", "title": "Comparative analysis of immune checkpoint inhibitors and chemotherapy in the treatment of advanced non-small cell lung cancer: A meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials.", "summary": "Anti-PD1/PD-L1 therapies are safe and effective treatment option in advanced non-small cell lung cancer and can be recommended selectively.", "substances": ["Antibodies, Monoclonal", "Antibodies, Monoclonal, Humanized", "Antineoplastic Agents", "B7-H1 Antigen", "CD274 protein, human", "Programmed Cell Death 1 Receptor", "Nivolumab", "atezolizumab", "pembrolizumab"]}, {"pmid": "29655852", "year": "2018", "title": "Aidi injection plus platinum-based chemotherapy for stage IIIB/IV non-small cell lung cancer: A meta-analysis of 42 RCTs following the PRISMA guidelines.", "summary": "From the available evidence, compared with platinum-based chemotherapy alone, Aidi injection plus platinum-based chemotherapy improves the clinical efficacy and alleviates the toxicity of chemotherapy in patients with stage IIIB/IV NSCLC. However, considering the intrinsic limitations of the included RCTs, well-designed, rigorously performed, high-quality trials are still required to further assess and confirm the results.", "substances": ["Drugs, Chinese Herbal", "Platinum Compounds", "aidi herbal drug"]}, {"pmid": "29594484", "year": "2019", "title": "Effects of Shengmai injection add-on therapy to chemotherapy in patients with non-small cell lung cancer: a meta-analysis.", "summary": "SMI add-on therapy appeared to be more effective in improving quality of life and reducing chemotherapy-induced adverse effects. However, more well-designed RCTs are warranted to confirm the findings of this meta-analysis because of the suboptimal methodological quality of the included trials.", "substances": ["Antineoplastic Agents", "Drug Combinations", "Drugs, Chinese Herbal", "fructus schizandrae, radix ginseng, radix ophiopogonis drug combination"]}, {"pmid": "29946182", "year": "2019", "title": "Indirect comparison of efficacy and safety between immune checkpoint inhibitors and antiangiogenic therapy in advanced non-small-cell lung cancer.", "summary": "In this study, we conducted an indirect comparison analysis to compare the efficacy and safety of immune checkpoint inhibitors with those of antiangiogenic therapy-two effective treatment methods for advanced non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Eligible randomised control trials of immune checkpoint inhibitors, antiangiogenic therapy, and doublet platinum-based therapy published up to July 2017 were comprehensively analysed. Through the indirect comparison analysis of 37 trials involving 16810 patients, treatments were compared for overall survival (OS) and grade 3-5 adverse events. For first-line treatment, the use of pembrolizumab alone (hazard ratio [HR]: 0.6; 95% confidence interval [CI]: 0.4-0.91) and a combination of bevacizumab and doublet platinum-based therapy (HR: 0.86; 95% CI: 0.75-0.99) demonstrated substantial survival benefits compared with doublet platinum-based therapy. For subsequent treatment, nivolumab may provide higher efficacy and lower toxicity than antiangiogenic therapy. Overall, anti-PD1 monoclonal antibodies may be superior to antiangiogenic therapy in terms of OS and grade 3-5 adverse events. This meta-analysis suggests that pembrolizumab and nivolumab might be favourable choices for first-line and subsequent treatment, respectively, for patients with advanced NSCLC. Additional randomised control trials are required for a comprehensive evaluation of the outcomes among regimens.", "substances": ["Angiogenesis Inhibitors", "Antibodies, Monoclonal", "Bevacizumab", "Nivolumab"]}, {"pmid": "29115057", "year": "2018", "title": "Smoking and EGFR status may predict outcomes of advanced NSCLC treated with PD-(L)1 inhibitors beyond first line: A meta-analysis.", "summary": "Smoking history and EGFR status may help predict the performance of PD-(L)1 inhibitors vs docetaxel in previously treated NSCLC patients.", "substances": ["Antibodies, Monoclonal", "Antibodies, Monoclonal, Humanized", "Antineoplastic Agents", "Programmed Cell Death 1 Receptor", "Nivolumab", "atezolizumab", "pembrolizumab", "EGFR protein, human", "ErbB Receptors"]}, {"pmid": "29609937", "year": "2018", "title": "Can Aidi injection improve overall survival in patients with non-small cell lung cancer? A systematic review and meta-analysis of 25 randomized controlled trials.", "summary": "Available evidences indicate that Aidi injection can significantly improve the clinical response and OS rates in patients with NSCLC and especially, the 1- and 2-year OS rate. But, Aidi injection plus different therapies had different effects on overall survival. It is still unclear whether Aidi injection can improve the PFS and HR.", "substances": ["Drugs, Chinese Herbal", "aidi herbal drug"]}, {"pmid": "29043599", "year": "2018", "title": "Shenyi Capsule () plus Chemotherapy versus Chemotherapy for Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer: A Systematic Review of Overlapping Meta-Analyses.", "summary": "Based on the best available evidence, treatment effect of SC plus chemotherapy was better than chemotherapy and did not increase side effects. Therefore, SC plus chemotherapy may be superior to chemotherapy for treating NSCLC. However, due to some limitations, SC plus chemotherapy should be cautiously considered, and further high-quality meta-analyses are needed.", "substances": ["Drugs, Chinese Herbal"]}, {"pmid": "29080213", "year": "2018", "title": "Looking for the best immune-checkpoint inhibitor in pre-treated NSCLC patients: An indirect comparison between nivolumab, pembrolizumab and atezolizumab.", "summary": "Immune-checkpoint inhibitors represent the new standard of care in patients with advanced NSCLC who progressed after first-line treatment. This work aim to assess any difference in both efficacy and safety profiles among Nivolumab, Pembrolizumab and Atezolizumab in pre-treated NSCLC patients. Randomized clinical trials comparing immune-checkpoint inhibitor versus docetaxel in pre-treated patients with advanced NSCLC were included and direct comparison meta-analysis of selected trials have been performed. Subsequently the summary estimates of Nivolumab, Pembrolizumab and Atezolizumab emerging from the direct meta-analysis were selected to provide the pooled estimates of hazard ratio (HR) and relative risk (RR) for the indirect comparisons among these agents. A total of 5 studies met the selection criteria and were included in the meta-analysis. Indirect comparisons for efficacy outcomes showed the RR for ORR nivolumab versus atezolizumab 1.66 (95% CI 1.07-2.58), pembrolizumab versus atezolizumab 1.94 (95% CI 1.30-2.90). No significant differences in both PFS and OS have been observed. Indirect comparisons for safety showed the RR for G3-5 AEs nivolumab versus pembrolizumab 0.41 (95% CI 0.29-0.60), nivolumab versus atezolizumab 0.50 (95% CI 0.35-0.72). No significant differences in both pneumonitis and discontinuation rate have been observed. The results of this work revealed that nivolumab and pembrolizumab are associated with a significant increase of ORR as compared to atezolizumab and nivolumab is associated with a significant lower incidence of G3-5 AEs as compared to the other drugs. These evidences could support the oncologists to select the best drug for each patient.", "substances": ["Antibodies, Monoclonal", "Antibodies, Monoclonal, Humanized", "Antineoplastic Agents", "Costimulatory and Inhibitory T-Cell Receptors", "Taxoids", "Docetaxel", "Nivolumab", "atezolizumab", "pembrolizumab"]}, {"pmid": "28391544", "year": "2018", "title": "Are EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitors effective in elderly patients with EGFR-mutated non-small cell lung cancer?", "summary": "EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) such as erlotinib, gefitinib, and afatinib changed dramatically the history of metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) harbouring EGFR mutations. However, not enough data are available on the efficacy of these targeted drugs in elderly patients. The aim of this study is to analyse the available clinical data evaluating the efficacy of anti-EGFR therapies in elderly patients with advanced NSCLC carrying EGFR mutations. A literature-based meta-analysis of the results of randomized clinical trials was undertaken. Relevant publications from PubMed, the Cochrane Library, and abstracts from American Society of Clinical Oncology meetings were searched. Progression-free survival (PFS), as a measure of the efficacy of treatment, was the primary outcome investigated. The pooled analysis revealed an overall significant improvement in PFS (HR\u00a0=\u00a00.44, 95% CI 0.28-0.69; p\u00a0=\u00a00.0004) with the use of EGFR TKIs in EGFR-mutated NSCLC. The data stratification per age subgroups showed that EGFR TKIs were more effective in prolonging PFS in elderly patients, with HR 0.39 (p\u00a0=\u00a00.008), in comparison with young patients (HR\u00a0= 0.48; p\u00a0=\u00a00.04). The results of this study suggest that EGFR TKIs have a significant effect in slowing down diseases progression in elderly patients with advanced NSCLC, therefore representing a valid therapeutic option in this age group.", "substances": ["Antineoplastic Agents", "Mutant Proteins", "Protein Kinase Inhibitors", "EGFR protein, human", "ErbB Receptors", "Protein-Tyrosine Kinases"]}, {"pmid": "30001642", "year": "2018", "title": "Chinese Herbal Medicine for Advanced Non-Small-Cell Lung Cancer: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis.", "summary": "Chinese herbal medicine (CHM) has been widely used in the treatment of advanced non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC), but their efficacy and safety remain controversial. We sought to comprehensively aggregate and evaluate the available evidence on the efficacy and safety of the combination treatment with CHM and epidermal growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors (EGFR-TKIs) in NSCLC patients. Our exhausted and systematical searching strategy yielded 64 related randomized controlled trials involving 4384 patients. Compared with EGFR-TKIs therapy alone, meta-analysis showed significant differences favoring the combination treatment in progression-free survival ([Formula: see text]), median survival time ([Formula: see text]), one-year survival rate ([Formula: see text]), two-year survival rate ([Formula: see text]), probability of severe toxicities ([Formula: see text]), objective response rate ([Formula: see text]), Karnofsky performance status ([Formula: see text]), and improvement in percentage of CD3[Formula: see text] T lymphocyte ([Formula: see text]) and CD4[Formula: see text] T lymphocyte ([Formula: see text]). Though these results require further confirmation, they are prone to show a potential therapeutic value of CHM in improving the clinical effect, overcoming the drug resistance and toxicities as an adjunctive therapy to EGFR-TKIs.", "substances": ["Drugs, Chinese Herbal", "ErbB Receptors"]}, {"pmid": "28994614", "year": "2018", "title": "Meta-analysis for the efficacy of S-1-based regimens as the first-line treatment in Asian chemotherapy-naive patients with advanced non-small-cell lung cancer.", "summary": "The present study has revealed that S-1-based regimens are accompanied by the similar efficacy and slighter AEs compared with standard regimens as the first-line treatment in Asian chemotherapy-naive patients with advanced non-small-cell lung cancer.", "substances": ["Drug Combinations", "S 1 (combination)", "Tegafur", "Oxonic Acid"]}, {"pmid": "28675660", "year": "2018", "title": "Meta-analysis of first-line therapies with maintenance regimens for advanced non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) in molecularly and clinically selected populations.", "summary": "Evidence has suggested survival benefits of maintenance for advanced NSCLC patients not progressing after first-line chemotherapy. Additionally, particular first-line targeted therapies have shown survival improvements in selected populations. Optimal first-line and maintenance therapies remain unclear. Here, currently available evidence was synthesized to elucidate optimal first-line and maintenance therapy within patient groups. Literature was searched for randomized trials evaluating first-line and maintenance regimens in advanced NSCLC patients. Bayesian network meta-analysis was performed within molecularly and clinically selected groups. The primary outcome was combined clinically meaningful OS and PFS benefits. A total of 87 records on 56 trials evaluating first-line treatments with maintenance were included. Results showed combined clinically meaningful OS and PFS benefits with particular first-line with maintenance treatments, (1) first-line intercalated chemotherapy+erlotinib, maintenance erlotinib in patients with EGFR mutations, (2) first-line afatinib, maintenance afatinib in patients with EGFR deletion 19, (3) first-line chemotherapy\u00a0+\u00a0bevacizumab, maintenance bevacizumab in EGFR wild-type patients, (4) chemotherapy+conatumumab, maintenance conatumumab in patients with squamous histology, (5) chemotherapy+cetuximab, maintenance cetuximab or chemotherapy\u00a0+\u00a0necitumumab, maintenance necitumumab in EGFR FISH-positive patients with squamous histology, and (6) first-line chemotherapy+bevacizumab, maintenance bevacizumab or first-line sequential chemotherapy+gefitinib, maintenance gefitinib in patients clinically enriched for EGFR mutations with nonsquamous histology. No treatment showed combined clinically meaningful OS and PFS benefits in patients with EGFR L858R or nonsquamous histology. Particular first-line with maintenance treatments show meaningful OS and PFS benefits in patients selected by EGFR mutation or histology. Further research is needed to achieve effective therapy for patients with EGFR mutation L858R or nonsquamous histology.", "substances": ["Biomarkers, Tumor"]}, {"pmid": "28829490", "year": "2018", "title": "Effect of ALK-inhibitors in the treatment of non-small cell lung cancer: a systematic review and meta-analysis.", "summary": "ALK inhibitors are safe and effective in the treatment of NSCLC patients, especially those with positive ALK-EML4 gene fusion or rearrangement.", "substances": ["Pyrazoles", "Pyridines", "Crizotinib", "ALK protein, human", "Anaplastic Lymphoma Kinase", "Receptor Protein-Tyrosine Kinases"]}, {"pmid": "28188101", "year": "2018", "title": "Antiangiogenic Therapy in Advanced Non-small-cell Lung Cancer: A Meta-analysis of Phase III Randomized Trials.", "summary": "We conducted a meta-analysis to evaluate the efficacy of adding any antiangiogenic therapy (AT) to the standard of care in advanced non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC). The electronic databases Ovid PubMed, Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials, and Embase were searched to identify eligible trials. We included all phase III randomized trials with any line and type of treatment, histology. and AT dose. Pooled hazard ratios (HRs) for overall survival (OS) and progression-free survival (PFS), and pooled odds ratio (OR) for overall response rates (RR) were calculated. We divided the population into 2 subgroups based on the bevacizumab dose. Data of 19,098 patients from 25 phase III trials were analyzed. Compared with the standard of care, the addition of AT did not prolong OS (HR 0.98; 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.96-1.00; P\u00a0= .1 and HR 0.97; 95% CI, 0.94-1.00; P\u00a0= .06 for groups 1 and 2, respectively). However, there was a significant improvement in PFS with the addition of AT (HR 0.85; 95% CI, 0.79-0.91; P\u00a0< .00001 and HR 0.81; 95% CI, 0.75-0.88; P\u00a0< .00001 for groups 1 and 2, respectively) and overall RR (OR 1.61; 95% CI, 1.30-2.01; P\u00a0< .0001 and OR 1.72; 95% CI, 1.39-2.14; P\u00a0< .00001 for groups 1 and 2, respectively). This is the first meta-analysis including only all phase III trials with AT in NSCLC showing no significant effect on OS and an improvement in PFS and RR only. The role of AT in advanced NSCLC is still questionable; strong validated biomarkers are eagerly needed to predict which subgroup might benefit the most from such therapy.", "substances": ["Angiogenesis Inhibitors", "Antineoplastic Agents", "Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor A", "Bevacizumab"]}, {"pmid": "28295308", "year": "2017", "title": "Comparison of gefitinib, erlotinib and afatinib in non-small cell lung cancer: A meta-analysis.", "summary": "Gefitinib, erlotinib and afatinib are three widely used epidermal growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors (EGFR TKIs) for treating advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) with proven efficacy. We undertook a systematic review and meta-analysis to synthesize existing studies with direct comparisons of EGFR TKIs in NSCLC in terms of both efficacy and safety. Eight randomized trials and 82 cohort studies with a total of 17,621 patients were included for analysis. Gefitinib and erlotinib demonstrated comparable effects on progression-free survival (hazard ratio [HR], 1.00; 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.95 to 1.04), overall survival (HR, 0.99; 95% CI, 0.93 to 1.06), overall response rate (risk ratio [RR], 1.05; 95% CI, 1.00 to 1.11), and disease control rate (RR, 0.98; 95% CI, 0.96 to 1.01), which did not vary considerably with EGFR mutation status, ethnicity, line of treatment, and baseline brain metastasis status. Gefitinib was associated with more grade 3/4 liver dysfunction, but tended to cause lower rates of dose reduction, treatment discontinuation, total grade 3/4 adverse events (RR, 0.78; 95% CI 0.65 to 0.94), and a number of specific adverse events such as rash and diarrhea. No solid evidence was found that afatinib had greater efficacy than gefitinib or erlotinib in first-line treatment of EGFR-mutant NSCLC. However, afatinib was more effective than erlotinib as second-line treatment of patients with advanced squamous cell carcinoma. The grade 3/4 adverse events rate of afatinib was comparable to that of erlotinib but higher than that of gefitinib.", "substances": ["Protein Kinase Inhibitors", "Quinazolines", "Afatinib", "Erlotinib Hydrochloride", "EGFR protein, human", "ErbB Receptors", "Gefitinib"]}, {"pmid": "28107192", "year": "2018", "title": "Incidence and risk of infections associated with EGFR-TKIs in advanced non-small-cell lung cancer: a systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials.", "summary": "Currently, the overall incidence and risk of infections with epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR)-tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) in non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients remained undetermined. We searched Pubmed for related articles published from 1 January 1990 to 31 November 2015. Eligible studies included prospective randomized controlled trials (RCTs) evaluating therapy with or without EGFR-TKIs in patients with NSCLC. Data on infections were extracted. Pooled incidence, Peto odds ratio (Peto OR), and 95% confidence intervals (CIs) were calculated. A total of 17,420 patients from 25 RCTs were included. The use of EGFR-TKIs significantly increased the risk of developing all-grade infections (Peto OR 1.48, 95%CI: 1.12-1.96, p = 0.006) in NSCLC patients, but not for severe (Peto OR 1.26, 95%CI: 0.96-1.67, p = 0.098) and fatal infections (Peto OR 0.81, 95%CI: 0.43-1.53, p = 0.52). Meta-regression indicated the risk of infections tended to increase with the treatment duration of EGFR-TKIs. No publication of bias was detected. In conclusion, the use of EGFR-TKIs significantly increased the risk of developing all-grade infectious events in NSCLC patients, but not for severe and fatal infections. Clinicians should be aware of the risks of infections with the administration of these drugs in these patients.", "substances": ["Protein Kinase Inhibitors", "ErbB Receptors"]}, {"pmid": "27664271", "year": "2018", "title": "EGFR gene copy number as a predictive/biomarker for patients with non-small-cell lung cancer receiving tyrosine kinase inhibitor treatment: a systematic review and meta-analysis.", "summary": "Epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) gene copy number has been proposed as a candidate biomarker for predicting treatment response to EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitors (EGFR-TKIs) in patients with advanced non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC). MEDLINE, PubMed, Cochrane, and Google Scholar databases were searched until October 21, 2015 using the following search terms: lung neoplasms/lung cancer/non-small cell lung cancer/NSCLC, EGFR, gene amplification, copy number, erlotinib, gefitinib, tyrosine-kinase inhibitor/TKI, predictor. 17 studies were included in the analysis with a total of 2047 patients. The overall analysis found that increased EGFR gene copy number was associated with higher overall response rate (ORR), overall survival (OS) and progression-free survival (PFS; p values \u22640.008) compared with patients without a high EGFR gene copy number. Subgroup analysis found that in a population of patients who were primarily Caucasian, a higher EGFR gene copy number was also associated with increased ORR, OS, and PFS (p values \u22640.018). The results were similar in a population of Asian patients, except that a higher EGFR gene copy number was not associated with improved OS (p=0.248). Sensitivity analysis indicated that no one study overly influenced the results and that the findings are robust. The result of the analysis found that EGFR gene copy number was associated with increased OS and PFS, supporting the idea that EGFR gene copy number is a biomarker for response to EGFR-TKI therapy in patients with advanced NSCLC.", "substances": ["Biomarkers, Tumor", "Protein Kinase Inhibitors", "EGFR protein, human", "ErbB Receptors"]}, {"pmid": "29199672", "year": "2018", "title": "A meta-analysis: Evaluation of safety and efficacy of the epidermal growth factor receptor-tyrosine kinase inhibitor monotherapy versus platinum-based doublets chemotherapy in East Asia.", "summary": "Compared with the platinum-based doublets chemotherapy, EGFR-TKI significantly prolonged PFS, increased ORR, improved qol, not significantly increased the nonhematologic toxicity and at the same time decreased the nonhematologic toxicity but not significantly increased the transaminase toxicity for advanced NSCLC patients in East Asia. Although there is convincing evidence to confirm the results mentioned herein, they still need to be confirmed by large-sample trials.", "substances": ["Organoplatinum Compounds", "Protein Kinase Inhibitors", "ErbB Receptors"]}, {"pmid": "27876230", "year": "2017", "title": "Intercalated Chemotherapy and Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor Inhibitors for Patients With Advanced Non-Small-cell Lung Cancer: A Systematic Review and Meta-analysis.", "summary": "Randomized clinical trials (RCTs) of concurrent epidermal growth factor receptor-tyrosine kinase inhibitors (EGFR-TKIs) plus chemotherapy for unselected patients with advanced non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) produced negative results. Intercalated administration could avoid the reduction of chemotherapy activity due to G<sub>1</sub> cell-cycle arrest from EGFR-TKIs. A PubMed search was performed in December 2015 and updated in February 2016. The references from the selected studies were also checked to identify additional eligible trials. Furthermore, the proceedings of the main international meetings were searched from 2010 onward. We included RCTs comparing chemotherapy intercalated with an EGFR-TKI versus chemotherapy alone for patients with advanced NSCLC. Ten RCTs were eligible (6 with erlotinib, 4 with gefitinib): 39% of patients had a known EGFR mutational status, 43% of whom EGFR mutation positive. The intercalated combination was associated with a significant improvement in overall survival (OS; hazard ratio [HR], 0.82; 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.71-0.95; P\u00a0= .01), progression-free survival (PFS; HR, 0.60; 95% CI, 0.53-0.68; P\u00a0< .00001), and objective response rate (ORR; odds ratio [OR], 2.70; 95% CI, 2.08-3.49; P\u00a0< .00001). Considering only first-line trials, similar differences were found in OS (HR, 0.85; 95% CI, 0.72-1.00; P\u00a0=\u00a0.05), PFS (HR, 0.63; 95% CI, 0.55-0.73; P\u00a0< .00001), and ORR (OR, 2.21; 95% CI, 1.65-2.95; P\u00a0< .00001). In EGFR mutation-positive patients, the addition of an intercalated EGFR-TKI produced a significant benefit in PFS (129 patients; HR, 0.24; 95% CI, 0.16-0.37; P\u00a0< .00001) and ORR (168 patients; OR, 11.59; 95% CI, 5.54-24.25; P\u00a0<\u00a0.00001). In patients with advanced NSCLC, chemotherapy plus intercalated EGFR-TKIs was superior to chemotherapy alone, although a definitive interpretation was jeopardized by the variable proportion of patients with EGFR mutation-positive tumors included.", "substances": ["Antineoplastic Agents", "Protein Kinase Inhibitors", "EGFR protein, human", "ErbB Receptors"]}, {"pmid": "28033249", "year": "2017", "title": "A meta-analysis of efficacy and safety of antibodies targeting PD-1/PD-L1 in treatment of advanced nonsmall cell lung cancer.", "summary": "The PD-1/PD-L1 therapy significantly prolonged the OS and improved the ORR, simultaneously lowering the treatment-related adverse effect events versus docetaxel.", "substances": ["Antibodies, Monoclonal", "Antibodies, Monoclonal, Humanized", "Antineoplastic Agents", "B7-H1 Antigen", "CD274 protein, human", "PDCD1 protein, human", "Programmed Cell Death 1 Receptor", "Taxoids", "Docetaxel", "Nivolumab", "atezolizumab", "pembrolizumab", "EGFR protein, human", "ErbB Receptors"]}, {"pmid": "27977598", "year": "2017", "title": "EGFR-TKIs versus taxanes agents in therapy for nonsmall-cell lung cancer patients: A PRISMA-compliant systematic review with meta-analysis and meta-regression.", "summary": "In the efficacy and safety evaluation, EGFR-TKIs had an advantage in the treatment of NSCLC, especially for patients with EGFR mutation-positive. The project was prospectively registered with PROSPERO database of systematic reviews, with number CRD42016038700.", "substances": ["Antineoplastic Agents", "Quinazolines", "Taxoids", "Docetaxel", "Erlotinib Hydrochloride", "EGFR protein, human", "ErbB Receptors", "Paclitaxel", "Gefitinib"]}, {"pmid": "27835601", "year": "2018", "title": "Is there a benefit of first- or second-line crizotinib in locally advanced or metastatic anaplastic lymphoma kinase-positive non-small cell lung cancer? a meta-analysis.", "summary": "First-line crizotinib may more effective than second-line crizotinib for patients with locally advanced or metastatic ALK-positive NSCLC.", "substances": ["Antineoplastic Agents", "Biomarkers, Tumor", "Protein Kinase Inhibitors", "Pyrazoles", "Pyridines", "Crizotinib", "ALK protein, human", "Anaplastic Lymphoma Kinase", "Receptor Protein-Tyrosine Kinases"]}, {"pmid": "27540850", "year": "2017", "title": "Incidence of Programmed Cell Death 1 Inhibitor-Related Pneumonitis in Patients With Advanced Cancer: A Systematic Review and Meta-analysis.", "summary": "The incidence of PD-1 inhibitor-related pneumonitis was higher in NSCLC and RCC and during combination therapy. These findings contribute to enhance awareness among clinicians and support further investigations to meet the clinical needs.", "substances": ["Antibodies, Monoclonal", "Antibodies, Monoclonal, Humanized", "Antineoplastic Agents", "PDCD1 protein, human", "Programmed Cell Death 1 Receptor", "Nivolumab", "pembrolizumab"]}, {"pmid": "27583876", "year": "2017", "title": "Anti-PD-1/PD-L1 antibody therapy for pretreated advanced nonsmall-cell lung cancer: A meta-analysis of randomized clinical trials.", "summary": "Anti-PD-1/PD-L1 antibody therapy may significantly improve the outcomes for pretreated advanced NSCLC patients, with a better safety profile than docetaxel.", "substances": ["Antibodies, Monoclonal", "Antibodies, Monoclonal, Humanized", "B7-H1 Antigen", "CD274 protein, human", "PDCD1 protein, human", "Programmed Cell Death 1 Receptor", "Taxoids", "Docetaxel", "Nivolumab", "atezolizumab"]}, {"pmid": "27468539", "year": "2016", "title": "[Clinical value of Tongguanteng (Radix seu Herba Marsdeniae Tenacissimae) extract combined with chemotherapy in the treatment of advanced non-small cell lung cancer: a Meta-analysis].", "summary": "This Meta-analysis suggests that Tongguanteng (Radix seu Herba Marsdeniae Tenacissimae) extract combined with chemotherapy may be more efficacious in the treatment of advanced NSCLC than chemotherapy alone. This effect includes enhancing ER and QOLIR, and weakening chemotherapy toxicity. However, large-scale RCTs are required to further investigate the short- and long-term effects of Tongguanteng (Radix seu Herba Marsdeniae Tenacissimae) extract.", "substances": ["Drugs, Chinese Herbal"]}, {"pmid": "27223332", "year": "2016", "title": "First-line treatment of advanced epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) mutation positive non-squamous non-small cell lung cancer.", "summary": "Erlotinib, gefitinib, and afatinib are all active agents in EGFR M+ NSCLC patients, and demonstrate an increased tumour response rate and prolonged progression-free survival compared to cytotoxic chemotherapy. We also found a beneficial effect of the TKI compared to cytotoxic chemotherapy. However, we found no increase in overall survival for the TKI when compared with standard chemotherapy. Cytotoxic chemotherapy is less effective in EGFR M+ NSCLC than erlotinib, gefitinib, or afatinib and is associated with greater toxicity. There were no data supporting the use of monoclonal antibody therapy.", "substances": ["Antineoplastic Agents", "Protein Kinase Inhibitors", "Quinazolines", "Afatinib", "Erlotinib Hydrochloride", "EGFR protein, human", "ErbB Receptors", "Cetuximab", "Gefitinib"]}, {"pmid": "26969107", "year": "2017", "title": "Correlation between PD-L1 expression and outcome of NSCLC patients treated with anti-PD-1/PD-L1 agents: A meta-analysis.", "summary": "The current analysis of data indicates that the benefit from PD-1 inhibitors versus docetaxel in second line treatment of NSCLC is limited to the PD-L1>1% subpopulation. Moreover, a possible dose effect relationship between the intensity of PD-L1 staining and the potential benefit from PD-1/PD-L1 targeted agents does exist with higher intensity associated with higher ORR.", "substances": ["Antineoplastic Agents", "B7-H1 Antigen", "CD274 protein, human", "Taxoids", "Docetaxel"]}, {"pmid": "26825369", "year": "2016", "title": "Improving Selection Criteria for ALK Inhibitor Therapy in Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer: A Pooled-Data Analysis on Diagnostic Operating Characteristics of Immunohistochemistry.", "summary": "Lung cancer is often diagnosed by molecular markers for prediction and treatment. To date, the golden standard for detection of anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK) rearrangements is fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH). We performed a pooled-data analysis on the diagnostic operating characteristics of immunohistochemistry (IHC) assay on non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). We searched Embase, Pubmed, and Springer databases. The results of IHC were evaluated using a modified H-score. We used a 2-level bivariate meta-analysis following a random effect model to summarize sensitivity and specificity and fit hierarchical summary receiver-operating characteristic curves. We also performed sensitivity analysis using different antibodies to investigate potential heterogeneity. Twelve studies consisting of a total of 3754 NSCLC specimens were analyzed. When we defined 1+/2+/3+, 2+/3+, and 3+ as ALK positive, we found the sensitivities to be 99% (95% confidence interval [CI], 97%-100%), 86% (95% CI, 73%-93%), and 56% (95% CI, 36%-74%) and the specificities to be 98% (95% CI, 95%-99%), 99% (95% CI, 99%-100%), and 100% (95% CI, 100%-100%), respectively. We demonstrated that when defining 3+ as positive and 0 as negative the sensitivity was 99% and specificity was 100%. In our sensitivity analysis, we found the sensitivity of D5F3 and 5A4 antibodies to be much higher than that of ALK1. We concluded that IHC scores 0 and 3+ were nearly 100% concordant with FISH-negative and FISH-positive status, respectively. However, IHC scores 1+ and 2+ might require further confirmatory testing by FISH assay. IHC assay using D5F3 and 5A4 antibodies reliably detected NSCLC with ALK rearrangement and may be useful as a screening method to identify these tumors. ", "substances": ["Antineoplastic Agents", "Biomarkers, Tumor", "Protein Kinase Inhibitors", "ALK protein, human", "Anaplastic Lymphoma Kinase", "Receptor Protein-Tyrosine Kinases"]}, {"pmid": "27461605", "year": "2017", "title": "Chemotherapy for advanced non-small cell lung cancer with a focus on squamous cell carcinoma.", "summary": "Lung cancers are broadly divided into small-cell lung cancer (SCLC) and non-SCLC (NSCLC), and the treatments for each differ. NSCLC includes squamous cell carcinoma, adenocarcinoma, large cell carcinoma, and others. However, because there is little difference in treatment efficacy between these histological types, they have collectively been treated as a single entity. Cytotoxic anti-cancer agents, mainly platinum-based drugs, are the first-line treatment for unresectable advanced NSCLC, and the standard therapy is combination chemotherapy with two drugs, usually involving one platinum-based and one unrelated cytotoxic drug. Such regimens have been used for all the different histological types. In recent years, however, genetic abnormalities in NSCLCs known as driver mutations have been identified. These include epidermal growth factor receptor mutations and anaplastic lymphoma kinase translocations, which are responsible for both carcinogenesis and cancer growth and survival. The advent of molecular targeted therapies that target these mutations has clearly improved the prognosis for NSCLC. However, effective molecular targeted drugs or novel anti-cancer agents that greatly prolong survival have not yet been developed to treat squamous cell carcinoma or 30% of adenocarcinomas. For patients with these types of cancers, it is important to use existing cytotoxic anti-cancer agents appropriately in their treatment. In this paper, we review the treatment options for unresectable advanced NSCLC on the basis of recent findings, with a particular focus on squamous cell carcinoma, for which groundbreaking drugs have yet to be discovered. ", "substances": ["Biomarkers, Tumor"]}, {"pmid": "27103788", "year": "2016", "title": "Clinicopathological significance and a potential drugtarget of RAR\u03b2 in non-small-cell lung carcinoma: a meta-analysis and a systematic review.", "summary": "Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer-related mortality in men worldwide. Aberrant RAR\u03b2 promoter methylation has been frequently investigated in non-small-cell lung carcinoma (NSCLC), the most common form of lung cancer. The aim of present study was to carry out a meta-analysis and a systematic review to evaluate clinicopathological significance of RAR\u03b2 promoter hypermethylation in NSCLC. A systematic literature search was carried out. The data were extracted and assessed by two reviewers independently. The Cochrane software Review Manager 5.2 was used to conduct the review. Odds ratios (ORs) with 95% corresponding confidence intervals (CIs) were calculated. A total of 18 relevant articles were available for meta-analysis which included 1,871 participants. The frequency of RAR\u03b2 hypermethylation was significantly increased in NSCLC than in nonmalignant lung tissue, and the pooled OR was 5.69 (P<0.00001). RAR\u03b2 hypermethylation was significantly more frequently observed in adenocarcinoma (AC) than in squamous cell carcinoma (SCC), and the pooled OR was 1.47 (P=0.005). Hypermethylation of RAR\u03b2 gene in NSCLC was 2.46 times higher in smoking than in nonsmoking individuals, and the pooled OR was 2.46 (P=0.0002). RAR\u03b2 hypermethylation rate was not significantly correlated with stage of the disease and sex. RAR\u03b2 gene methylation status was not associated with prognosis of patients with NSCLC. In conclusion, RAR\u03b2 promoter hypermethylation significantly increased in NSCLC than in non-neoplastic lung tissue and is predominant in AC, suggesting that RAR\u03b2 methylation contributes to the development of NSCLC, especially AC. RAR\u03b2 gene is a potential novel target for development of personalized therapy in patients with NSCLC, and is promising in restoration of retinoic acid-target gene induction via demethylation of RAR\u03b21' promoter. ", "substances": ["Receptors, Retinoic Acid", "retinoic acid receptor beta"]}, {"pmid": "36331404", "year": "2022", "title": "Ongoing progress in BRAF-mutated non-small cell lung cancer.", "summary": "Activating BRAF mutations are detected in 1.5% to 4.5% of patients with non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). These mutations involve the mitogen-activated protein kinase/extracellular signal-regulated kinase pathway, and affect proliferation, differentiation, transcriptional regulation, and survival of cancer cells. Today, the combination of the BRAF inhibitor dabrafenib and the MEK inhibitor trametinib is the preferred first-line treatment option in patients with advanced BRAF V600-mutated NSCLC, with an objective response rate of 64%, a median progression-free survival of 10.2 months, a median overall survival of 24.6 months, and a median duration of response of 10.4 months, according to a pivotal phase 2 study. These outcomes remain inferior to those achieved with other targeted therapies in advanced NSCLC with other driver alterations. First-generation BRAF inhibitors are not active in the class II and III BRAF mutations that form the other half of BRAF mutations in NSCLC. New RAF inhibitors are being investigated in early trials. Novel treatment combinations, particularly with immune checkpoint inhibitors, are also underway. Patient referral to expert centers and enrollment in basket trials as well as serial tissue and liquid biopsies are needed to improve the understanding and the treatment outcomes of this relatively rare disease subset.", "substances": ["Proto-Oncogene Proteins B-raf", "Oximes", "Protein Kinase Inhibitors", "Pyridones", "BRAF protein, human"]}, {"pmid": "36242712", "year": "2022", "title": "New Strategies and Novel Combinations in EGFR TKI-Resistant Non-small Cell Lung Cancer.", "summary": "Osimertinib is the current standard-of-care for the first-line treatment of Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor (EGFR)-mutant non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Progression after osimertinib ineluctably occurs, and standard of care treatment options beyond progression have mainly included next-line platinum doublet chemotherapy. With better understanding of the varied molecular mechanisms of resistance to osimertinib, several opportunities for the use of targeted agents are emerging that include MET amplification, observed in 15% of patients, and resistant EGFR mutations, including C797S in 7% of patients. Evidence for the use of targeted therapies in such situations is mostly based on case reports, but clinical trials are being conducted with MET inhibitors, such as amivantamab, an EGFR-MET bispecific antibody, or next-generation EGFR inhibitors, such as patritumab-deruxtecan, a HER3 antibody drug conjugate. In this review, we outline our proposed approach to current clinical practice for patients with EGFR mutant, osimertinib-resistant NSCLC which includes the following potential strategies: - Continuation of osimertinib beyond progression following local ablative treatment of oligoprogressive disease, - Tissue rebiopsy of progressive site and possibly concurrent liquid biopsy to evaluate for mechanism of resistance utilizing comprehensive genomic profiling, -Discussion at a molecular tumor board for assessment for enrollment in clinical trials/expanded access program if available with innovative drugs or possible off-label use of available targeted agents, based on the results of molecular profiling, -If no mechanism of resistance identified, administration of platinum-based chemotherapy with antiangiogenic agents. The role of immunotherapy will also be addressed given the uncertain benefit.", "substances": ["ErbB Receptors", "osimertinib", "amivantamab-vmjw", "Protein Kinase Inhibitors", "Angiogenesis Inhibitors", "Antineoplastic Agents", "Immunoconjugates", "EGFR protein, human"]}, {"pmid": "36108503", "year": "2022", "title": "Refining patient selection of MET-activated non-small cell lung cancer through biomarker precision.", "summary": "Dysregulated MET signaling plays an important role in lung oncogenesis, tumor growth and invasiveness. It may occur through various mechanisms, such as MET overexpression or gene amplification or mutation, all of which can be detected by specific methods. The utility of MET overexpression as a biomarker remains unclear due to discrepancies in its occurrence and non-standardized cut-off thresholds. MET exon 14 skipping mutation (METex14) was established as a strong predictor of response to selective MET tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs), and clinical trial results in patients with non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) harboring METex14 led to the approval of capmatinib and tepotinib by regulatory agencies worldwide. MET amplification is an emerging biomarker, with clinical data indicating an association between MET gene copy number and response to MET-TKIs. Additionally, MET amplification represents an important mechanism of resistance to TKIs in oncogene-driven NSCLC. The identification of molecular alterations for which targeted therapies are available is important, and high-throughput next-generation sequencing techniques can provide information on multiple genes at the same time, helping to provide valuable predictive information for oncogene-driven cancers. This review summarizes the current methods used for the detection of METex14, MET amplification and MET overexpression, and discusses the evidence for the use of MET-TKIs in patients with NSCLC with MET dysregulation. We discuss the practical challenges that impact the use of METex14 in the clinic and the evidence gaps that need to be addressed to validate additional genomic markers for MET-dependent cancers.", "substances": ["Biomarkers, Tumor", "Protein Kinase Inhibitors", "Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-met"]}, {"pmid": "35964503", "year": "2022", "title": "Overcoming C797S mutation: The challenges and prospects of the fourth-generation EGFR-TKIs.", "summary": "The third-generation epidermal growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors (EGFR-TKIs) have accomplished impressive clinical achievements in the treatment of non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Nonetheless, the acquired drug resistance largely limits their clinical use. The tertiary C797S mutation in the kinase domain of EGFR is one of the major mechanisms responsible for the drug resistance. Therefore, much attention has been focused on the development of the fourth-generation EGFR-TKIs to target triple mutant epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) with C797S mutation. In this review, we outline the panorama of the fourth-generation EGFR-TKIs reported up to now with the attention paid on the design strategy, binding mode and antitumor activity of these EGFR-TKIs. We also discuss the challenges and prospects of the fourth-generation EGFR-TKIs.", "substances": ["Protein Kinase Inhibitors", "EGFR protein, human", "ErbB Receptors"]}, {"pmid": "36343036", "year": "2022", "title": "Poziotinib in non-small-cell lung cancer patients with HER2 exon 20 mutations: A pooled analysis of randomized clinical trials.", "summary": "Poziotinib demonstrates moderate antitumor activity in previously treated HER2 exon 20 mutant NSCLC patients with a manageable safety profile. In addition, different subgroup mutations show various benefits of poziotinib treatment. Large-scale and multiarm clinical trials are warranted to confirm a suitable population and therapeutic strategies.", "substances": ["HM781-36B", "Protein Kinase Inhibitors"]}, {"pmid": "36054729", "year": "2022", "title": "Lichen-planus-pemphigoides-like reaction to PD-1 checkpoint blockade.", "summary": "Lichen planus pemphigoides is a distinct cutaneous toxicity to checkpoint inhibitor therapy illustrates a possible pathogenic mechanism and the importance of dermatopathology recognition to render an accurate diagnosis.", "substances": ["Apoptosis Regulatory Proteins", "B7-H1 Antigen", "Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors", "Immunoglobulin G", "Programmed Cell Death 1 Receptor"]}, {"pmid": "36037792", "year": "2022", "title": "Cabozantinib after prior checkpoint inhibitor therapy in patients with solid tumors: A systematic literature review.", "summary": "Cabozantinib appears to have anti-tumor activity after prior CPI therapy in patients with solid tumors. Our results are driven largely by studies in renal cell carcinoma. Evidence from ongoing phase 3 trials is required to establish further the role of cabozantinib after CPI therapy.", "substances": ["Anilides", "Cyclopropanes", "Indoles", "Pyridines", "cyclopropapyrroloindole", "cabozantinib"]}, {"pmid": "35882620", "year": "2022", "title": "A Review of Concurrent Chemo/Radiation, Immunotherapy, Radiation Planning, and Biomarkers for Locally Advanced Non-small Cell Lung Cancer and Their Role in the Development of ECOG-ACRIN EA5181.", "summary": "ECOG-ACRIN EA5181 is a current prospective, randomized trial that is investigating whether the addition of concomitant durvalumab to standard chemo/radiation followed by 1 year of consolidative durvalumab results in an overall survival benefit over standard chemo/radiation alone followed by 1 year of consolidative durvalumab in patients with locally advanced, unresectable non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Because multiple phase I/II trials have shown the relative safety of adding immunotherapy to chemo/radiation and due to the known synergism between chemotherapy and immunotherapy, it is hoped that concomitant durvalumab can reduce the relatively high incidence of local failure (38%-46%) as seen in recent prospective, randomized trials of standard chemo/radiation in this patient population. We will review the history of radiation for LA-NSCLC and discuss the role of induction, concurrent and consolidative chemotherapy as well as the concerns for late cardiac and pulmonary toxicities associated with treatment. Furthermore, we will review the potential role of next generation sequencing, PD-L1, ctDNA and tumor mutation burden and their possible impact on this trial.", "substances": ["B7-H1 Antigen", "Biomarkers, Tumor"]}, {"pmid": "35636978", "year": "2022", "title": "FDG PET/CT for Evaluation of Immunotherapy Response in Lung Cancer Patients.", "summary": "Over the last decade, several strategies have revolutionized the clinical management of patients with lung cancer, including immunotherapy. Indeed, immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICI) monotherapy or in combination represent the standard-of-care for patients with advanced disease with no actionable mutation. Due to the unique action of ICI to potentiate the immune system, conventional response assessment criteria in medical imaging, such as RECIST 1.1, have limitations. Unlike chemotherapy, patients treated with ICI can present atypical response patterns including pseudoprogression, hyper-progression, and dissociated response. Therefore, the creation and implementation of novel standardized response criteria that consider these distinct response patterns is of critical importance. In parallel, FDG PET/CT is now part of the routine staging for patients with nonsmall cell lung cancer. Moreover, there is an increasing interest in using FDG PET/CT metrics for predicting response to ICI therapy. While standardized uptake values are limited in predicting outcomes, new metrics including tumor metabolic volume, total lesion glycolysis, metabolic activity of the gut microbiome, and radiomics show promise as potential nuclear-medicine ICI biomarkers. Moreover, PET tracers that specifically target immune checkpoints such as PD-L1 also showed promising results in predicting ICI response. Finally, despite achieving higher response rates, ICI therapy leads to the development of immune-related adverse events such as pneumonitis or colitis. Therefore, it is of upmost importance for the imaging specialist to recognize the metabolic patterns associated with these new toxicity profiles. In this paper, we will review how the FDG PET/CT can potentially become a useful marker for the evaluation of ICI response.", "substances": ["B7-H1 Antigen", "Fluorodeoxyglucose F18", "Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors"]}, {"pmid": "35486097", "year": "2022", "title": "Molecular Pathways and Mechanisms of BRAF in Cancer Therapy.", "summary": "With the identification of activating mutations in BRAF across a wide variety of malignancies, substantial effort was placed in designing safe and effective therapeutic strategies to target BRAF. These efforts have led to the development and regulatory approval of three BRAF inhibitors as well as five combinations of a BRAF inhibitor plus an additional agent(s) to manage cancer such as melanoma, non-small cell lung cancer, anaplastic thyroid cancer, and colorectal cancer. To date, each regimen is effective only in patients with tumors harboring BRAFV600 mutations and the duration of benefit is often short-lived. Further limitations preventing optimal management of BRAF-mutant malignancies are that treatments of non-V600 BRAF mutations have been less profound and combination therapy is likely necessary to overcome resistance mechanisms, but multi-drug regimens are often too toxic. With the emergence of a deeper understanding of how BRAF mutations signal through the RAS/MAPK pathway, newer RAF inhibitors are being developed that may be more effective and potentially safer and more rational combination therapies are being tested in the clinic. In this review, we identify the mechanics of RAF signaling through the RAS/MAPK pathway, present existing data on single-agent and combination RAF targeting efforts, describe emerging combinations, summarize the toxicity of the various agents in clinical testing, and speculate as to where the field may be headed.", "substances": ["Proto-Oncogene Proteins B-raf", "Antineoplastic Agents", "Protein Kinase Inhibitors", "BRAF protein, human"]}, {"pmid": "34895095", "year": "2022", "title": "Efficacy and safety of pembrolizumab for treating advanced non-small-cell lung cancer: a meta-analysis of phase II and III randomized controlled trials.", "summary": "We conducted a meta-analysis to systematically review the efficacy and safety of pembrolizumab for advanced NSCLC. Databases were searched for randomized controlled trials (RCTs) treated with pembrolizumab till July 2021. Seven RCTs and 3988 patients were included. Our analysis suggests that pembrolizumab was more effective at improving PFS (HR, 0.59; 95% CI: 0.43-0.79; <i>p</i>\u2009=\u20090.0005), OS (HR, 0.65; 95% CI: 0.55-0.76; <i>p</i> \uff1c 0.00001) and ORR (RR, 1.85; 95% CI: 1.64-2.09; <i>p</i> \uff1c 0.00001) than chemotherapy. Patients with higher PD-L1 expression level were tend to have a better PFS, OS and ORR. Combination therapy of pembrolizumab was superior to pembrolizumab monotherapy in enhancing PFS. Pembrolizumab did not increase the frequency of commonly reported adverse events, but the immune-related adverse events (irAEs) occurred more frequently in the pembrolizumab group than those in the chemotherapy group. The pembrolizumab significantly improved the PFS, OS and ORR, simultaneously increasing the irAEs.", "substances": ["B7-H1 Antigen", "pembrolizumab"]}, {"pmid": "34877924", "year": "2022", "title": "Systematic review and meta-analysis of the predictive power of <i>MTHFR</i> polymorphisms for pemetrexed drug efficacy and toxicity in non-small cell lung cancer patients.", "summary": "We conducted a meta-analysis to determine if <i>MTHFR</i> polymorphisms are effective biomarkers for non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patient survival and pemetrexed (PEM) treatment toxicity. Because of data heterogeneity, fixed or random effects models were chosen, and pooled HRs and 95% confidence intervals (CIs) were calculated. No correlation between <i>MTHFR</i> 677\u2009C\u2009>\u2009T polymorphism and progression-free survival (PFS) or overall survival (OS) was detected in NSCLC patients; however, patients with the T allele benefited more than those with the wild-type allele. Two papers reported hematologic toxicity of single-agent PEM treatment in patients with the <i>MTHFR</i> 677\u2009C\u2009>\u2009T polymorphism. However, data on <i>MTHFR</i> polymorphisms and toxicity could not be combined, even though publication bias and sensitivity analysis results were stable and reliable. We conclude that the <i>MTHFR</i> 677\u2009C\u2009>\u2009T polymorphism could not predict PEM efficacy in NSCLC patients; however, the T allele may increase the risk of haematological toxicity. A large-scale clinical trial is recommended.", "substances": ["Pemetrexed", "MTHFR protein, human", "Methylenetetrahydrofolate Reductase (NADPH2)"]}, {"pmid": "26945426", "year": "2016", "title": "Pulmonary Toxicities of Gefitinib in Patients With Advanced Non-Small-Cell Lung Cancer: A Meta-Analysis of Randomized Controlled Trials.", "summary": "Gefitinib is a selective tyrosine kinase inhibitor of the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) used to treat adults with EGFR mutation-positive non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Clinical benefits of gefitinib administration in NSCLC patients have been observed in clinical practice, but the extent of the pulmonary toxicity of gefitinib in patients with advanced NSCLC remains unclear. The aim of this systematic review was to evaluate the overall incidence and risk of gefitinib-related pulmonary toxicity in advanced NSCLC patients. Relevant trials were identified from the databases of Pubmed, Embase, Cochrane Library, and the clinicaltrials.gov of the U.S. National Institutes of Health. The outcomes included the overall incidence, odds ratios (ORs), and 95% confidence intervals (CIs). Fixed-effects models were used in the statistical analyses according to the heterogeneity of the included studies. According to the data from the included trials, the overall incidence of high-grade hemoptysis, pneumonia, pneumonitis, and interstitial lung disease (ILD) was 0.49% (95% CI: 0.24%-0.99%), 2.33% (95% CI: 1.47%-3.66%), 2.24% (95% CI: 1.34%-3.72%), and 1.43% (95% CI: 0.98%-2.09%), respectively. The pooled ORs of high-grade hemoptysis, pneumonia, pneumonitis, and ILD were 1.73 (95% CI: 0.46-6.52; P\u200a=\u200a0.42), 0.99 (95% CI: 0.66-1.49; P\u200a=\u200a0.95), 4.70 (95% CI: 1.48-14.95; P\u200a=\u200a0.0087), and 2.64 (95% CI: 1.22-5.69; P\u200a=\u200a0.01), respectively. Gefitinib was associated with a significantly increased risk of high-grade/fatal ILD and pneumonitis compared with the controls, whereas the risk of other high-grade pulmonary events (pneumonia and hemoptysis) was not significant. Careful surveillance of gefitinib-related pulmonary toxicity is critical for the safe use of this drug.", "substances": ["Antineoplastic Agents", "Quinazolines", "Gefitinib"]}, {"pmid": "26954503", "year": "2016", "title": "Role of Gemcitabine and Pemetrexed as Maintenance Therapy in Advanced NSCLC: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis of Randomized Controlled Trials.", "summary": "Gemcitabine or pemetrexed compared with BSC/observation/placebo significantly improved PFS or OS. Whether pemetrexed + bevacizumab compared with bevacizumab alone significantly improves PFS requires further investigation.", "substances": ["Pemetrexed", "Deoxycytidine", "gemcitabine"]}], "Pituitary Neoplasms": [{"pmid": "36036308", "year": "2022", "title": "Cushing's disease: adrenal steroidogenesis inhibitors.", "summary": "Cushing's disease (CD), caused by an adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH)-secreting pituitary tumor, is the most common form of Cushing's syndrome (CS), accounting for approximately 70% of cases. CD requires a prompt diagnosis, an adequate treatment selection, and long-term management to limit hypercortisolism duration and long-term complications and improve patient outcomes. Pituitary surgery is the first-line option, which is non-curative in one third of patients, therefore\u00a0requiring additional treatments. Medical therapy has recently acquired an emerging role, with the availability of several drugs with different therapeutic targets, efficacy and safety profiles. The current review focuses on efficacy and safety of steroidogenesis inhibitors, and particularly the historical drugs, ketoconazole and metyrapone, and the novel drugs levoketoconazole and osilodrostat, which seem to offer a rapid, sustained, and effective disease control. Ketoconazole should be preferred in females and in patients without severe liver disease; levoketoconazole may offer an alternative to classical ketoconazole, appearing characterized by a higher potency and potential lower hepatotoxicity compared to ketoconazole. Metyrapone should be preferred in males and in patients without severe or uncontrolled hypokalemia. Both ketoconazole and metyrapone may be preferred for short-term more than for long-term treatment. Osilodrostat may represent the best choice for long-term treatment, in patients with poor compliance to the multiple daily administration schedule, and in patients without severe or uncontrolled hypokalemia. Steroidogenesis inhibitors may be used alone or in combination, and associated with pituitary directed drugs, to improve the efficacy of the\u00a0single drugs, allowing a potential use of lower doses for each drug, and hypothetically reducing the rate of adverse events associated with the single drugs. Clinicians may tailor medical therapy on the specific clinical scenario, considering disease history together with\u00a0patients' characteristics and hypercortisolism's degree, addressing the needs of each patient in order to improve the therapeutic outcome and to reduce the burden of illness, particularly in patients with persistent or recurrent CD.", "substances": ["Metyrapone", "Ketoconazole", "Steroid Synthesis Inhibitors", "Adrenocorticotropic Hormone"]}, {"pmid": "35261059", "year": "2022", "title": "Withdrawal of dopamine agonist treatment in patients with hyperprolactinaemia: A systematic review and meta-analysis.", "summary": "The proportion of patients with persistent normoprolactinaemia following DA withdrawal treatment varied greatly, partly explained by the mean age of participants of the individual studies. Individual patient data analysis suggested that successful withdrawal was likely in patients with full regression of prolactinomas using a low maintenance dose before cessation.", "substances": ["Dopamine Agonists"]}, {"pmid": "36157469", "year": "2022", "title": "Pituitary carcinoma - case series and review of the literature.", "summary": "Although pituitary adenomas (PAs) account for 15% of intracranial tumors, pituitary carcinomas (PCs) are a rare entity. Most commonly, PCs evolve from aggressive PAs invading the surrounding structures and eventually leading to metastatic lesions. Due to the low incidence, the diagnosis and treatment remains challenging. We report a case series of five patients with pituitary carcinoma (PC) treated in our center. At first diagnosis 3 patients had an ACTH-producing adenoma, 1\u00a0a prolactinoma and 1\u00a0a double secreting adenoma (GH and prolactin). The mean time interval from initial diagnosis to diagnosis of PC was 10.7 years (range 5-20 years). All patients underwent multiple surgical resections and radiotherapy. Four patients were treated with temozolomide for metastatic disease. One patient with concomitant radiochemotherapy for local recurrence. Temozolomide led to a stable disease in 2 patients. One patient had a progressive disease after 9 cycles of temozolomide. In absence of standard treatment, immunotherapy was initiated, resulting in a stable disease. We report five cases of PCs. Three patients obtained a stable disease after tailored multidisciplinary treatment. Additionally, one patient was treated with immunotherapy, opening a new treatment option in PCs. Overall, PCs are rare intracranial neoplasms occurring several years after the initial diagnosis of aggressive PAs. Currently, the absence of predictive factors for an aggressive clinical course, provokes a challenging management.", "substances": ["Antineoplastic Agents, Alkylating", "Adrenocorticotropic Hormone", "Prolactin", "Temozolomide"]}, {"pmid": "36125673", "year": "2022", "title": "Impulse control disorders in hyperprolactinemic patients on dopamine agonist therapy.", "summary": "Dopamine agonists (DAs) represent a mainstay of therapy for hyperprolactinemia and prolactinomas. The widespread use of DAs, including bromocriptine, cabergoline and (in some countries) quinagolide, has led to the emergence and recognition of impulse control disorders (ICDs) that may occur in association with DA therapy.Such ICDs include pathological gambling, compulsive shopping, hypersexuality and punding (the performance of repetitive tasks), among others. These manifestations can lead to substantial harms to patients and their families, if left undiagnosed and untreated. Several risk factors that may increase the risk of ICDs have been proposed, including younger age, male gender, smoking and alcohol use and history of depression.The diagnosis of ICDs in hyperprolactinemic patients treated with DAs requires a high index of suspicion and a systematic approach, using available screening questionnaires. However, it should be noted that available test instruments, including questionnaires and computerized tasks, have not been validated specifically in hyperprolactinemic patients. Hyperprolactinemic patients who develop ICDs should be withdrawn from DA therapy or, at a minimum, undergo a DA dose reduction, and considered for psychiatric consultation and cognitive behavioral therapy. However, the role of psychopharmacotherapy in hyperprolactinemic patients with ICDs remains incompletely characterized.Patient counseling regarding the risk of ICDs occurring in association with DA therapy, early detection and prompt intervention may mitigate potential harms associated with ICDs. Additional studies are needed to fully characterize risk factors, underlying mechanisms and identify effective therapies for ICDs in patients with hyperprolactinemia receiving DAs.", "substances": ["Dopamine Agonists", "Bromocriptine", "Cabergoline"]}, {"pmid": "35979732", "year": "2022", "title": "Aggressive corticotroph tumors and carcinomas.", "summary": "Pituitary tumors are generally benign, although in rare cases aggressive pituitary tumors (APTs) and carcinomas present important diagnostic and therapeutic challenges and are associated with a high mortality rate. Almost half of these APTs and carcinomas are corticotroph tumors, suggesting a specific prognosis. Clinical, pathological and molecular prognostic markers are limited and do not allow early management of these tumors. Temozolomide remains the first-line treatment once a diagnosis of aggressive pituitary tumor or carcinoma has been made. Novel alternative treatments exist, including immune checkpoint inhibitors, which can be used in the case of temozolomide treatment failure. The aim of this review is to present the clinical, pathological and molecular characteristics of aggressive corticotroph tumors and carcinomas, and to describe the results obtained with currently available treatments.", "substances": ["Temozolomide"]}, {"pmid": "36013562", "year": "2022", "title": "Treatment of Prolactinoma.", "summary": "Prolactinomas are the commonest form of pituitary neuroendocrine tumor (PitNET), representing approximately half of such tumors. Dopamine agonists (DAs) have traditionally been the primary treatment for the majority of prolactinomas, with surgery considered the second line. The aim of this review is to examine the historical and modern management of prolactinomas, including medical therapy with DAs, transsphenoidal surgery, and multimodality therapy for the treatment of aggressive prolactinomas and metastatic PitNETs, with an emphasis on the efficacy, safety, and future directions of current therapeutic modalities. DAs have been the mainstay of prolactinoma management since the 1970s, initially with bromocriptine and more recently with cabergoline. Cabergoline normalizes prolactin in up to 85% of patients and causes tumor shrinkage in up to 80%. Primary surgical resection of microprolactinomas and enclosed macroprolactinomas performed by experienced pituitary neurosurgeons have similar remission rates to cabergoline. Aggressive prolactinomas and metastatic PitNETS should receive multimodality therapy including high dose cabergoline, surgery, radiation therapy (preferably using stereotactic radiosurgery where suitable), and temozolomide. DAs remain a reliable mode of therapy for most prolactinomas but results from transsphenoidal surgery in expert hands have improved considerably over the last one to two decades. Surgery should be strongly considered as primary therapy, particularly in the setting of microprolactinomas, non-invasive macroprolactinomas, or prior to attempting pregnancy, and has an important role in the management of DA resistant and aggressive prolactinomas.", "substances": ["Dopamine Agonists", "Bromocriptine", "Cabergoline"]}, {"pmid": "35635035", "year": "2022", "title": "Bromocriptine therapy: Review of mechanism of action, safety and tolerability.", "summary": "Bromocriptine is a sympatholytic dopamine D2 receptor agonist with remarkable bioactivities. It has been used clinically as a prescription drug for more than 30\u2009years to treat hyperprolactinemia associated conditions, Parkinson's disease, acromegaly, prolactinomas and other pituitary hormone dependent adenomas and recently, diabetes mellitus as well as various other disorders. Long-term treatment with bromocriptine has minimal or no harmful effects on renal, hepatic, cardiac or hematologic functions. This review article was planned to study the hypothetical and proposed mechanism of action as well as provide a brief discussion about its safety issues and tolerability. Bromocriptine represents an attractive option with high efficacy and safety profile for hyperprolactinemia-associated conditions, acromegaly, parkinsonism, type 2 diabetes mellitus and various other diseases in a variety of dosage forms for best possible beneficial effects. It appeared to be an effective and safe addition to the pharmacopoeia of drugs for the treatment of a vast variety of diseases as monotherapy or in combination with other drugs.", "substances": ["Dopamine Agonists", "Bromocriptine", "Prolactin"]}, {"pmid": "35023192", "year": "2022", "title": "Case report and literature review of BRAF-V600 inhibitors for treatment of papillary craniopharyngiomas: A potential treatment paradigm shift.", "summary": "We reviewed the literature on BRAF-V600E inhibition as a non-invasive method of treating papillary craniopharyngiomas harbouring the BRAF-V600E mutation.", "substances": ["Oximes", "Protein Kinase Inhibitors", "Pyridones", "Pyrimidinones", "BRAF protein, human", "Proto-Oncogene Proteins B-raf"]}, {"pmid": "35301645", "year": "2022", "title": "Targeted therapies in the medical management of craniopharyngioma.", "summary": "Craniopharyngioma (CP) is an intracranial benign tumor that behaves aggressively due to its location, infiltration of the surrounding nervous tissue and high capacity for recurrence. Treatment of choice is surgery followed or not by radiotherapy. Recent advances in molecular biology techniques and the better understanding of the genetic alterations of the two histological types of CP have open new therapeutic perspectives with targeted drugs. Adamantinomatous CP (ACP) is associated with activating mutations of the CTNNB1 gene. Such mutations are accompanied by intracellular accumulation of \u03b2-catenin, an oncogenic protein that activates the intracellular Wnt/ \u03b2-catenin signaling pathway, which regulates the transcription of genes involved in cell proliferation. Therefore, the use of molecular therapies directed against the activation of the Wnt/ \u03b2-catenin pathway could be an attractive and promising therapeutic option in the management of ACPs. On the other hand, papillary CP (PCP) is associated with activating mutations in the BRAF gene. This gene encodes a BRAF protein that plays an important role in the intracellular mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signaling pathway, which also regulates cell proliferation. The use of BRAF inhibitors either in monotherapy or in combination with mitogen-activated protein kinase (MEK) inhibitors has demonstrated therapeutic efficacy in isolated clinical cases of relapsed PCPs. A preliminary report of a recent phase II clinical trial has shown a therapeutic response in 93.7% of patients with BRAF <sup>V600E</sup> -mutated PCP, with an 85% reduction in tumor size. In the present review we comment on the efficacy and safety of the different drugs being used in patients with PCP.", "substances": ["beta Catenin", "Proto-Oncogene Proteins B-raf", "Mitogen-Activated Protein Kinases"]}, {"pmid": "35143036", "year": "2022", "title": "A rare case of a giant prolactinoma with atypical histological features: 5\u00a0years of follow-up.", "summary": "Giant prolactinomas presenting with multiple pituitary hormone deficiencies in childhood or adolescence are rare and require prompt diagnosis and multidisciplinary management.", "substances": ["Prolactin", "Cabergoline"]}, {"pmid": "35319491", "year": "2022", "title": "Safety of growth hormone replacement in survivors of cancer and intracranial and pituitary tumours: a consensus statement.", "summary": "Growth hormone (GH) has been used for over 35 years, and its safety and efficacy has been studied extensively. Experimental studies showing the permissive role of GH/insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-I) in carcinogenesis have raised concerns regarding the safety of GH replacement in children and adults who have received treatment for cancer and those with intracranial and pituitary tumours. A consensus statement was produced to guide decision-making on GH replacement in children and adult survivors of cancer, in those treated for intracranial and pituitary tumours and in patients with increased cancer risk. With the support of the European Society of Endocrinology, the Growth Hormone Research Society convened a Workshop, where 55 international key opinion leaders representing 10 professional societies were invited to participate. This consensus statement utilized: (1) a critical review paper produced before the Workshop, (2) five plenary talks, (3) evidence-based comments from four breakout groups, and (4) discussions during report-back sessions. Current evidence reviewed from the proceedings from the Workshop does not support an association between GH replacement and primary tumour or cancer recurrence. The effect of GH replacement on secondary neoplasia risk is minor compared to host- and tumour treatment-related factors. There is no evidence for an association between GH replacement and increased mortality from cancer amongst GH-deficient childhood cancer survivors. Patients with pituitary tumour or craniopharyngioma remnants receiving GH replacement do not need to be treated or monitored differently than those not receiving GH. GH replacement might be considered in GH-deficient adult cancer survivors in remission after careful individual risk/benefit analysis. In children with cancer predisposition syndromes, GH treatment is generally contraindicated but may be considered cautiously in select patients.", "substances": ["Human Growth Hormone", "Insulin-Like Growth Factor I", "Growth Hormone"]}, {"pmid": "35256178", "year": "2022", "title": "Non-surgical Interventions for Pituitary Lesions.", "summary": "There have been numerous advancements in the variety of nonsurgical therapies available to achieve control of pituitary tumor size and hormone production. Medical therapies may target the pituitary tumor directly or the downstream hormonal pathways and receptors. Combination therapies may further improve clinical outcomes. Radiotherapy has a slower onset of action, which can hamper its use.", "substances": ["Dopamine Agonists", "Somatostatin"]}, {"pmid": "35095761", "year": "2022", "title": "Resistance to Dopamine Agonists in Pituitary Tumors: Molecular Mechanisms.", "summary": "Pituitary neuroendocrine tumors (PitNET) are commonly benign tumors accounting for 10-25% of intracranial tumors. Prolactin-secreting adenomas represent the most predominant type of all PitNET and for this subtype of tumors, the medical therapy relies on the use of dopamine agonists (DAs). DAs yield an excellent therapeutic response in reducing tumor size and hormonal secretion targeting the dopamine receptor type 2 (D2DR) whose higher expression in prolactin-secreting adenomas compared to other PitNET is now well established. Moreover, although DAs therapy does not represent the first-line therapy for other PitNET, off-label use of DAs is considered in PitNET expressing D2DR. Nevertheless, DAs primary or secondary resistance, occurring in a subset of patients, may involve several molecular mechanisms, presently not fully elucidated. Dopamine receptors (DRs) expression is a prerequisite for a proper DA function in PitNET and several molecular events may negatively modify DR membrane expression, through the DRs down-regulation and intracellular trafficking, and DR signal transduction pathway. The current mini-review will summarise the presently known molecular events that underpin the unsuccessful therapy with DAs.", "substances": ["Aminoquinolines", "Dopamine Agonists", "Filamins", "MicroRNAs", "Receptors, Dopamine D2", "beta-Arrestins", "Pergolide", "Bromocriptine", "quinagolide", "Lisuride", "Cabergoline"]}, {"pmid": "34618894", "year": "2022", "title": "The Future of Somatostatin Receptor Ligands in Acromegaly.", "summary": "Currently, the first-generation somatostatin receptor ligands (fg-SRLs), octreotide LAR and lanreotide autogel, are the mainstays of acromegaly treatment and achieve biochemical control in approximately 40% of patients and tumor shrinkage in over 60% of patients. Pasireotide, a second-generation SRL, shows higher efficacy with respect to both biochemical control and tumor shrinkage but has a worse safety profile. In this review, we discuss the future perspectives of currently available SRLs, focusing on the use of biomarkers of response and precision medicine, new formulations of these SRLs and new drugs, which are under development. Precision medicine, which is based on biomarkers of response to treatment, will help guide the decision-making process by allowing physicians to choose the appropriate drug for each patient and improving response rates. New formulations of available SRLs, such as oral, subcutaneous depot, and nasal octreotide, may improve patients' adherence to treatment and quality of life since there will be more options available that better suit each patient. Finally, new drugs, such as paltusotine, somatropin, ONO-5788, and ONO-ST-468, may improve treatment adherence and present higher efficacy than currently available drugs.", "substances": ["Antineoplastic Agents, Hormonal", "Biomarkers, Tumor", "Peptides, Cyclic", "Receptors, Somatostatin", "lanreotide", "Somatostatin", "pasireotide", "Octreotide"]}, {"pmid": "34034260", "year": "2022", "title": "MicroRNAs in Dopamine Agonist-Resistant Prolactinoma.", "summary": "Dopamine agonists (DAs) are preferred for the treatment of prolactinomas and are usually very effective. Nonetheless, 20-30% of bromocriptine- and approximately 10% of cabergoline-treated individuals exhibit resistance to DAs. In addition, the mechanism underlying this phenomenon remains elusive. In this study, we summarize the major findings regarding the role of microRNAs (miRNAs) in the pathogenesis of DA-resistant prolactinoma (DARP). Currently available evidence suggests that miRNAs are usually dysregulated in DARP and that, although controversial, the dysregulated miRNAs target the transforming growth factor (TGF)-\u03b2, dopamine 2 receptor (D2R), or estradiol (E2)/estrogen receptor (ER) signaling pathways to mediate the therapeutic effect of DAs. These findings provide new incentives for research on innovative strategies for predicting patients' responsiveness to dopamine therapies and for developing treatment approaches. Unfortunately, recent studies tended to focus exclusively on the differential miRNA expression profiles between DARP and dopamine-sensitive prolactinoma, and no definitive consensus has been reached regarding the role of these miRNAs in the modulation mechanism. Therefore, current and future efforts should be directed toward the exploration of the mechanism underlying the dysregulation of miRNAs as well as of the target proteins that are affected by the dysregulated miRNAs. Furthermore, the modulation of the expression of dysregulated miRNAs, which target the D2R, TGF-\u03b2, or E2/ER signaling pathways, might be a promising alternative to treat patients with DARP and improve their prognosis.", "substances": ["Dopamine Agonists", "MicroRNAs", "Dopamine"]}, {"pmid": "34774043", "year": "2022", "title": "The recurrence of prolactinoma after withdrawal of dopamine agonist: a systematic review and meta-analysis.", "summary": "Our study showed a very low recurrent rate of prolactinomas after DAs withdrawal. Much more prospective studies with larger cases and longer follow-up period are encouraged to confirm our finding.", "substances": ["Dopamine Agonists", "Bromocriptine", "Cabergoline"]}, {"pmid": "34580821", "year": "2022", "title": "Surgical outcomes of medically failed prolactinomas: a systematic review and meta-analysis.", "summary": "This systematic review and meta-analysis revealed 38% of operated patients achieved remission, while 62% achieved remission when additional modes of therapy were implemented. Therefore, although surgery has not been initial therapeutic choice for prolactinoma, it plays a significant role in medically failed prolactinoma care.", "substances": ["Dopamine Agonists", "Prolactin"]}, {"pmid": "34681905", "year": "2021", "title": "Molecular Pathways in Prolactinomas: Translational and Therapeutic Implications.", "summary": "Prolactinoma has the highest incidence rate among patients with functional pituitary tumours. Although mostly benign, there is a subgroup that can be aggressive. Some clinical, radiological and pathology features have been associated with a poor prognostic. Therefore, it can be considered as a group of heterogeneous tumours. The aim of this paper is to give an overview of the molecular pathways involved in the behaviour of prolactinoma in order to improve our approach and gain deeper insight into the better understanding of tumour development and its management. This is essential for identifying patients harbouring aggressive prolactinoma and to establish personalised therapeutics options.", "substances": ["Antineoplastic Agents", "Dopamine Agonists"]}, {"pmid": "33835355", "year": "2022", "title": "GnRH agonist-associated pituitary apoplexy: a case series and review of the literature.", "summary": "This is the first report of a case series with PA after GnRHa administration with longitudinal follow-up. Although infrequent, PA can be life-threatening and should be suspected among patients receiving GnRHa, with or without a known pituitary adenoma, who develop acute headache, nausea and/or vomiting. Since hypopituitarism was reversible in a subset, ongoing pituitary function testing may be indicated.", "substances": ["Gonadotropin-Releasing Hormone"]}, {"pmid": "34194011", "year": "2021", "title": "Drug resistance in pituitary tumours: from cell membrane to intracellular signalling.", "summary": "The pharmacological treatment of pituitary tumours is based on the use of stable analogues of somatostatin and dopamine. The analogues bind to somatostatin receptor types 2 and 5 (SST2 and SST5) and dopamine receptor type 2 (DRD2), respectively, and generate signal transduction cascades in cancerous pituitary cells that culminate in the inhibition of hormone secretion, cell growth and invasion. Drug resistance occurs in a subset of patients and can involve different steps at different stages, such as following receptor activation by the agonist or during the final biological responses. Although the expression of somatostatin and dopamine receptors in cancer cells is a prerequisite for these drugs to reach a biological effect, their presence does not guarantee the success of the therapy. Successful therapy also requires the proper functioning of the machinery of signal transduction and the finely tuned regulation of receptor desensitization, internalization and intracellular trafficking. The present Review provides an updated overview of the molecular factors underlying the pharmacological resistance of pituitary tumours. The Review discusses the experimental evidence that supports a role for receptors and intracellular proteins in the function of SSTs and DRD2 and their clinical importance.", "substances": ["Intracellular Signaling Peptides and Proteins"]}, {"pmid": "34447484", "year": "2022", "title": "Immune Checkpoints: Therapeutic Targets for Pituitary Tumors.", "summary": "Pituitary tumors are the third most common intracranial tumors in adults. Treatment of refractory pituitary tumors is known to be difficult due to limited treatment options. As a promising therapeutic method, tumor immunotherapy has been applied in the treatment of many tumors, including pituitary tumors. Immune checkpoint blocking is one of the effective strategies to activate antitumor immunity. Immune checkpoints prevent tissue damage by regulating the immune response of peripheral tissues and participate in the maintenance of a normal immune environment. In the presence of a tumor, inhibition of T cell activity by tumor cells binding to immune checkpoints and their ligands is an important mechanism for tumor cells to escape immune injury. In this review, we summarize the latest findings of immune checkpoints and their potential as immunotherapeutic targets for pituitary tumors.", "substances": ["Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors", "Immune Checkpoint Proteins"]}, {"pmid": "33914699", "year": "2021", "title": "Apoplexy of microprolactinomas during pregnancy: report of five cases and review of the literature.", "summary": "During pregnancy, pituitary apoplexy may occur in pre-existing microprolactinomas, causing tumour enlargement and headache, which may be self-limiting but may require intervention by re-initation of dopamine agonists or surgery. Our literature review confirms that this clinical event is rare; nevertheless, physicians managing pregnant patients with microprolactinomas must be aware that symptomatic pituitary apoplexy may incidentally occur in all trimesters of pregnancy and require prompt radiological, endocrine and ophthalmological assessment and treatment.", "substances": ["Dopamine Agonists", "Bromocriptine", "Cabergoline"]}, {"pmid": "33690871", "year": "2021", "title": "Medical Therapy of Aggressive Pituitary Tumors.", "summary": "The rare aggressive pituitary adenoma presents a special challenge, due to the heterogenous presentation of the disease. The prognosis of aggressive pituitary adenomas has been improved due to recent studies demonstrating clinically-relevant efficacy of temozolomide, which is now considered first-line chemotherapy. However, there is limited data on second-line therapies in patients with treatment failure. This review presents a summary on the potential of medical therapies in aggressive pituitary tumors.", "substances": ["Antineoplastic Agents", "Enzyme Inhibitors", "Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors", "Bevacizumab", "Temozolomide"]}, {"pmid": "33373604", "year": "2021", "title": "The risks of medical treatment of prolactinoma.", "summary": "First-line treatment of prolactinoma is usually medical, based on dopamine agonists receptors, mainly cabergoline. The classical side-effects of cabergoline (low blood pressure and nausea) have been well known since it was first introduced. Other side-effects, however, are more controversial or simply less frequent, but need to be considered during monitoring. This review will focus on these side-effects: cardiac valvular fibrosis, pleural, pericardial and retroperitoneal fibrosis, addictive/compulsive behaviors, and risks secondary to significantly decreased tumor volume. We will also describe how such side-effects should be monitored and managed. In our opinion, the low prevalence of these side-effects should not cast doubt on the role of cabergoline in the therapeutic algorithm of prolactinoma.", "substances": ["Dopamine Agonists", "Cabergoline"]}, {"pmid": "25500765", "year": "2016", "title": "Current drug withdrawal strategy in prolactinoma patients treated with cabergoline: a systematic review and meta-analysis.", "summary": "Our meta-analysis shows that hyperprolactinemia recurs after cabergoline withdrawal in a majority of patients. The probability of success favors patients who have achieved normoprolactinemia and considerable reduction in tumor size by low dose of cabergoline treatment. In addition, our study further suggests that a beneficial strategy is associated with tapering CAB dose before withdrawal but not with CAB treatment duration longer than 2 years.", "substances": ["Biomarkers, Tumor", "Dopamine Agonists", "Ergolines", "Prolactin", "Cabergoline"]}, {"pmid": "32232709", "year": "2021", "title": "Long-course temozolomide in aggressive pituitary adenoma: real-life experience in two tertiary care centers and review of the literature.", "summary": "TMZ may be useful and well-tolerated in APAs and PCs as a long-term therapy. PR appears within the first cycles with no escape throughout the treatment; most patients achieve SD. We suggest extended protocols particularly in responsive ACTH+\u2009 PAs and PCs, when further therapies may be unsuccessful.", "substances": ["Antineoplastic Agents, Alkylating", "Temozolomide"]}, {"pmid": "32741482", "year": "2021", "title": "The Role of Dopamine Agonists in Pituitary Adenomas.", "summary": "Dopamine agonist therapy is the primary therapy for prolactin-secreting adenomas and usually results in normoprolactinemia, eugonadism, and tumor reduction. Cabergoline is superior to bromocriptine with regard to efficacy and tolerance. Withdrawal of cabergoline can be attempted in patients with normal prolactin levels on low doses of medication and evidence of radiographic tumor involution. Dopamine agonists have been used off label in patients with acromegaly, Cushing disease, and nonfunctioning adenomas. A trial of cabergoline monotherapy can be effective in patients with biochemically mild acromegaly. Cabergoline combination with somatostatin receptor ligands or pegvisomant improves insulin-like growth factor level 1 in majority of patients.", "substances": ["Dopamine Agonists", "Human Growth Hormone", "Cabergoline", "pegvisomant"]}, {"pmid": "32147777", "year": "2021", "title": "Temozolomide therapy for aggressive pituitary tumours - current understanding and future perspectives.", "summary": "The use of temozolomide (TMZ) for the management of aggressive pituitary tumours (APT) has revolutionised clinical practice in this field with significantly improved clinical outcomes and long-term survival. Its use is now well established however a large number of patients do not respond to treatment and recurrence after cessation of TMZ is common. A number of challenges remain for clinicians such as appropriate patient selection, treatment duration and the role of combination therapy. This review will examine the use of TMZ to treat APT including mechanism of action, treatment regimen and duration; biomarkers predicting response to treatment and patient selection; and current evidence for administration of TMZ in combination with other agents.", "substances": ["Antineoplastic Agents, Alkylating", "Temozolomide"]}, {"pmid": "32274622", "year": "2021", "title": "Do nothing but observe microprolactinomas: when and how to replace sex hormones?", "summary": "Hyperprolactinemia is associated with suppression of the hypothalamic- pituitary-gonadal axis and consequent hypogonadism, manifesting loss of libido, infertility and osteoporosis long-term in both male and female patients, with associated menstrual irregularities, amenorrhea and galactorrhea in women and erectile dysfunction in men. The primary goals of therapy in patients harboring prolactinoma are control of tumor size and normalization of serum PRL, with restoration of gonadal and sexual function and fertility. Clinical manifestations of hypogonadism have variable consequences depending on the age and sex of the patient and desire for fertility. Careful consideration of clinical consequences of hyperprolactinemia in relation to age and sex should help guide therapeutic decision making. Another important consideration in attaining our treatment goals in patients harboring microprolactinomas, is the observation that greater than 90% of microprolactinomas do not enlarge, when followed for 10\u00a0years. Treatment options for the management of microprolactinomas include observation alone, with monitoring of serum prolactin levels every 6-12\u00a0months, vs initiation of dopamine agonist therapy vs gonadal steroid hormone replacement (using the oral contraceptive or other combination estrogen and progesterone replacement regimens in females or testosterone replacement therapy in males). In the present review, current data related to clinical consequences of microprolactinomas and treatment outcomes at different stages in the lifespan are reviewed, with a suggested algorithm as to whether to treat or not, and an appropriate therapeutic regimen to institute.", "substances": ["Dopamine Agonists", "Estrogens", "Progesterone"]}, {"pmid": "32121432", "year": "2020", "title": "Somatostatin Analogs in Clinical Practice: a Review.", "summary": "Somatostatin analogs are an invaluable therapeutic option in the diagnosis and treatment of somatotropinomas, thyrotropinomas, and functioning and non-functioning gastroenteropancreatic neuroendocrine tumors. They should also be considered an effective and safe therapeutic alternative to corticotropinomas, gonadotropinomas, and prolactinomas resistant to dopamine agonists. Somatostatin analogs have also shown to be useful in the treatment of other endocrine diseases (congenital hyperinsulinism, Graves' orbitopathy, diabetic retinopathy, diabetic macular edema), non-endocrine tumors (breast, colon, prostate, lung, and hepatocellular), and digestive diseases (chronic refractory diarrhea, hepatorenal polycystosis, gastrointestinal hemorrhage, dumping syndrome, and intestinal fistula).", "substances": ["Antineoplastic Agents, Hormonal", "Somatostatin"]}, {"pmid": "31802331", "year": "2020", "title": "Prolactinomas in males: any differences?", "summary": "Compared to other pituitary adenomas, secreting and non-secreting, where pituitary surgery is the recommended first-line treatment, men with prolactinomas will usually respond to medical treatment with no need for any additional treatment.", "substances": ["Dopamine Agonists", "Somatostatin", "pasireotide", "Cabergoline", "Temozolomide"]}, {"pmid": "31686376", "year": "2020", "title": "Prolactinomas and menopause: any changes in management?", "summary": "There is no evidence that justifies changing current recommendations to withhold medical treatment of microprolactinomas in asymptomatic post-menopausal women. Macroprolactinoma patients should be treated according to standard clinical practice.", "substances": ["Dopamine Agonists", "Prolactin"]}, {"pmid": "31863423", "year": "2020", "title": "Updates in the Medical Treatment of Pituitary Adenomas.", "summary": "Pituitary adenomas represent approximately 15% of brain tumors; incidence is significantly on the increase due to widespread use of magnetic resonance imaging. Surgery remains the first-line treatment for most tumors overall. The role of dopaminergic agonists (DAs) and somatostatin receptor ligands (SRLs) in the treatment of pituitary adenomas is quite well established for prolactinomas and growth hormone (GH) excess. However, over the last decade new multi-receptor binding SRLs are increasingly used for treatment of acromegaly and Cushing's disease. SRLs/DA chimeric compounds seem to have enhanced potency and efficacy when compared to that of individual SRLs or DA receptor agonists according to preclinical data. However, following negative results, more research is needed to determine if this interesting mechanism will translate into positive clinical effects for acromegaly patients. Furthermore, new agents that block adrenal steroidogenesis have been developed in phase III clinical trials for Cushing's disease and several new compounds working at the pituitary level and/or blocking the glucocorticoid receptor are also in development. Combination therapy of drugs with similar or different mechanisms (possibly synergistic) are also on the increase. A growing awareness regarding all mechanisms involved in both control of pituitary secretion and cellular proliferation might allow for sole medical treatment of pituitary adenomas, especially macroadenomas, rather than surgery and/or radiation therapy, in the future. Moreover, the underlying decision on how to treat patients with pituitary adenomas should be individualized on a case-by-case basis with not only a goal of tumor shrinkage and biochemical control, but also of improving patients' quality of life.", "substances": ["Dopamine Agonists", "Receptors, Somatostatin"]}, {"pmid": "31597135", "year": "2021", "title": "Treatment of Pituitary and Other Tumours with Cabergoline: New Mechanisms and Potential Broader Applications.", "summary": "Cabergoline is a dopamine agonist that has been used as the first-line treatment option for prolactin-secreting pituitary adenomas for several decades. It not only suppresses hormone production from these prolactinomas, but also causes tumour shrinkage. Recent studies revealed some novel mechanisms by which cabergoline suppresses tumour cell proliferation and induces cell death. In this article, we review the most recent findings in cabergoline studies, focusing on its anti-tumour function. These studies suggest the potential broader clinical use of cabergoline in the treatment of other tumours such as breast cancer, pancreatic neuroendocrine tumours, and lung cancer.", "substances": ["Antineoplastic Agents", "Dopamine Agonists", "Cabergoline"]}, {"pmid": "31853793", "year": "2020", "title": "Surgery for prolactinomas: a better choice?", "summary": "Given excellent results of TSS and concerns about medical treatment, the scale of indications for TSS as an alternative to DAs has increased. The patient's wishes concerning a chance at a cure with TSS instead of a long-term treatment with DAs has become an important and accepted indication. With DA medication and TSS, two effective treatment modalities for prolactinomas are available that can be used in a complementary fashion.", "substances": ["Dopamine Agonists"]}, {"pmid": "31792668", "year": "2020", "title": "Prolactinomas in pregnancy: considerations before conception and during pregnancy.", "summary": "Prolactinomas are the most common pituitary tumors and pathological hyperprolactinemia. Therefore, women harboring prolactinomas frequently present infertility due to the gonadal axis impairment. The gold-standard treatment is dopamine agonist (DA) which can reverse hyperprolactinemia and hypogonadism, and promote tumor shrinkage in the majority of cases. Therefore, reports of pregnancy in such cohort become more common. In this scenario, bromocriptine is still the DA of choice due to its shorter half-life and larger experience as compared to cabergoline. In DA resistant cases, transsphenoidal pituitary surgery is indicated. However, potential risks of DA-induced pregnancies include fetal exposition and symptomatic tumor growth. Dopamine agonist should be discontinued as soon as pregnancy is confirmed in microprolactinomas and intrasellar macroprolactinomas (MAC). Concerning expansive/invasive MAC, DA maintenance should be considered. Periodically clinical evaluation should be performed during pregnancy, being sellar imaging indicated if tumor symptomatic growth is suspected. In such cases, if DA treatment fails, neurosurgery is indicated.", "substances": ["Dopamine Agonists", "Bromocriptine"]}, {"pmid": "31617128", "year": "2020", "title": "Aggressive prolactinomas: how to manage?", "summary": "Despite the significant improvement obtained with the use of temozolomide, a need for alternative drugs persists since a majority of these tumors are resistant or will recur during the follow-up. Patients suffering from such a rare condition should have access to clinical trials available for other types of rare cancers, such as tyrosine kinase inhibitors or immunotherapy.", "substances": ["Dopamine Agonists", "Temozolomide"]}, {"pmid": "31556013", "year": "2020", "title": "Dopamine agonists in prolactinomas: when to withdraw?", "summary": "Dopamine agonists (DAs) are well recognized as the first-line therapy for prolactinomas due to their efficacy in achieving tumoral shrinkage and normoprolactinemia. However, it remains to be established the best timing to withdraw DAs and in which patients this should be attempted. Studies in the 1980s, mainly using bromocriptine, started to defy the concept that DAs should be regarded as a lifelong therapy considering that sustained normoprolactinemia was attained in a small subset of patients after drug withdrawal. The introduction of the more effective agent cabergoline led to an increase in the percentages of remission. The most recent meta-analysis on the topic stated than remission rates after withdrawal can range from 15% in macroprolactinoma patients treated with bromocriptine to 41% in those with microprolactinomas previously treated with cabergoline. When more stringent criteria were applied before attempting withdrawal, sustained remission ensued in more than 50% of the individuals. Treatment duration for more than 24\u00a0months, the achievement of normoprolactinemia, marked reduction (\u2265\u200950%) in tumoral size and DAs tapering till a low maintenance dose (e.g. cabergoline 0.5\u00a0mg/week) have been the most consistently identified predictors of success. In addition, a growing amount of evidence suggests that the post-pregnancy/breastfeeding period and menopause are reasonable timings to re-access the need for continuing DAs therapy. Considering that the achievement of sustained normoprolactinemia is still far from being universal after the withdrawal, even in highly selected cohorts, future larger prospective studies should continue to address this issue.", "substances": ["Dopamine Agonists", "Cabergoline"]}, {"pmid": "31522358", "year": "2020", "title": "Dopamine agonist resistant prolactinomas: any alternative medical treatment?", "summary": "Consensus guidelines recommend dopamine agonists (DAs) as the mainstay treatment for prolactinomas. In most patients, DAs achieve tumor shrinkage and normoprolactinemia at well tolerated doses. However, primary or, less often, secondary resistance to DAs may be also encountered representing challenging clinical scenarios. This is particularly true for aggressive prolactinomas in which surgery and radiotherapy may not achieve tumor control. In these cases, alternative medical treatments have been considered but data on their efficacy should be interpreted within the constraints of publication bias and of lack of relevant clinical trials. The limited reports on somatostatin analogues have shown conflicting results, but cases with optimal outcomes have been documented. Data on estrogen modulators and metformin are scarce and their usefulness remains to be evaluated. In many aggressive lactotroph tumors, temozolomide has demonstrated optimal outcomes, whereas for other cytotoxic agents, tyrosine kinase inhibitors and for inhibitors of\u00a0mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR), higher quality evidence is needed. Finally, promising preliminary results from in vitro and animal reports need to be further assessed and, if appropriate, translated in human studies.", "substances": ["Dopamine Agonists", "Cabergoline"]}, {"pmid": "30014686", "year": "2020", "title": "Immunotherapy and potential molecular targets for the treatment of pituitary adenomas resistant to standard therapy: a critical review of potential therapeutic targets and current developments.", "summary": "Rapid advancements in tumor immunology may increase the probability of successful treatment of PAs by exploitation of the normal immune response or by targeting novel proteins. Current research on many of the targets reviewed in this article are successfully being utilized to manage various neoplastic disease including CNS tumors. These therapies may eventually play a key role in the treatment of PAs that do not respond to standard therapy.", "substances": ["Antineoplastic Agents, Immunological", "Biomarkers, Tumor"]}, {"pmid": "31705792", "year": "2020", "title": "GEOFFREY HARRIS AWARD 2019: Translational research in pituitary tumours.", "summary": "Although effective treatment regimens (surgical resection, drug treatment with dopamine agonists or somatostatin analogues, radiotherapy) have been established for the therapy of most pituitary tumours, a considerable proportion of affected patients cannot completely cured due to incomplete resection or drug resistance. Moreover, even if hormone levels have been normalized, patients with hormone-secreting tumours still show persistent pathophysiological alterations in metabolic, cardiovascular or neuropsychiatric parameters and have an impaired quality of life. In this review reasons for the discrepancy between biochemical cure and incomplete recovery from tumour-associated comorbidities are discussed and the clinical management is delineated exemplarily for patients with acromegaly and Cushing's disease. In view of the development of additional treatment concepts for the treatment of pituitary adenomas we speculate about the relevance of RSUME as a potential target for the development of an anti-angiogenic therapy. Moreover, the role of BMP-4 which stimulates prolactinoma development through the Smad signalling cascade is described and its role as putative drug target for the treatment of prolactinomas is discussed. Regarding the well-known resistance of a part of somatotropinomas to somatostatin analogue treatment, recently identified mechanisms responsible for the drug resistance are summarized and ways to overcome them in future treatment concepts are presented. Concerning novel therapeutic options for patients with Cushing's disease the impact of retinoic acid, which is currently tested in clinical studies, is shown, and the action and putative therapeutic impact of silibinin to resolve glucocorticoid resistance in these patients is critically discussed.", "substances": ["Somatostatin"]}, {"pmid": "31575930", "year": "2020", "title": "Preoperative Somatostatin Analogues in Patients with Newly-diagnosed Acromegaly: A Systematic Review and Meta-analysis of Comparative Studies.", "summary": "Biochemical remission after transsphenoidal surgery is still unsatisfied in acromegaly patients with macroadenomas, especially with invasive macroadenomas. Concerning the impact of preoperative somatostatin analogues (SSAs) on surgical outcomes, previous studies with limited cases reported conflicting results. To assess current evidence of preoperative medical treatment, we performed a systematic review and meta-analysis of comparative studies. A literature search was conducted in Pubmed, Embase, and the Cochrane Library. Five randomized controlled trials (RCT) and seven non-RCT comparative studies were included. These studies mainly focused on pituitary macroadenomas though a small number of microadenoma cases were included. For safety, preoperative SSAs were not associated with elevated risks of postoperative complications. With respect to efficacy, the short-term cure rate was improved by preoperative SSAs, but the long-term cure rate showed no significant improvement. For invasive macroadenomas, the short-term cure rate was also improved, but the long-term results were not evaluable in clinical practice because adjuvant therapy was generally required. In conclusion, preoperative SSAs are safe in patients with acromegaly, and the favorable impact on surgical results is restricted to the short-term cure rate in macroadenomas and invasive macroadenomas. Further well-designed RCTs to examine long-term results are awaited to update the finding of this meta-analysis.", "substances": ["Somatostatin"]}, {"pmid": "31311005", "year": "2020", "title": "How and when to use temozolomide to treat aggressive pituitary tumours.", "summary": "Temozolomide is an oral chemotherapy used to treat aggressive pituitary tumours since 2006. It is inexpensive and well tolerated, the main side effects are fatigue, nausea and cytopenia. Overall the studies demonstrate approximately 70% response rate for temozolomide, if response is defined radiologically as complete, partial response or stable disease. Using the more stringent criteria of complete or partial response, the success rate is near 40%. Functioning tumours respond more frequently than non-functioning tumours. Tumours which are depleted of methyl guanine methyltransferase (MGMT), as assessed by immunohistochemistry, also are more likely to respond. Temozolomide has an established role in treating pituitary tumours which have demonstrated metastases or which are refractory and progressing, despite all conventional treatment (so-called salvage treatment). The challenge is to offer temozolomide earlier in the pathway if appropriate. Tumours which demonstrate aggressive clinical behaviour (defined as clinically relevant growth despite optimal treatment) should be considered for temozolomide. One common situation when this might occur is tumour progression after surgery and radiotherapy. It is unnecessary to wait until salvage treatment is required. Anticipated (but not yet demonstrated) aggressive behaviour can be regarded as a potential indication for temozolomide, but there is currently insufficient evidence to recommend this. Ideally a trial should assess this potential indication. Early treatment could be considered in selected cases when high levels of proliferation and invasion were demonstrated, causing significant clinical concern.", "substances": ["Antineoplastic Agents, Alkylating", "Temozolomide"]}, {"pmid": "30531694", "year": "2019", "title": "Pathological markers of somatotroph pituitary neuroendocrine tumors predicting the response to medical treatment.", "summary": "Acromegaly is mainly due to the somatotroph pituitary neuroendocrine tumors (PitNET)s. These have been subtyped into densely granulated (DG) and sparsely granulated (SG) tumors, which differ in clinical, histological and biological characteristics and in response to somatostatin analogs (SA)s. The variable remission rate after surgical resection, as first line treatment, has increased interest in identifying pathological markers to better predict the response to medical treatment. Several techniques have shown somatotroph tumors to express somatostatin receptors (SSTR)s, and mainly SSTR2 and SSTR5. The molecular methods appear to give contradictory results, are expansive and cannot be routinely performed. Immunohistochemistry, while being the most powerful technique, requires optimal fixation and the use of monoclonal antibodies against at least SSTR2 and SSTR5. Almost all somatotroph tumors express SSTR2 or SSTR5, and, in great majority, at a high level. More importantly, the type of SSTR, the level of expression, and the response to SA treatment appear well correlated. Indeed, a significantly higher expression of SSTR2 in DG compared to in SG tumors likely explains the better response of DG tumors to the normalization of growth hormone and insulin-like growth factor-1 under SA. However, a reproducible scoring and a cut-off from which the SA efficacy can be reliably predicted, remain to be found. In conclusion, the SSTR expression profile and morphological subtypes of the somatotroph tumor may help predict the response to medical treatment. Such pathological profiling could become a useful decision-making tool for clinicians in the context of a multidisciplinary approach, after surgery failure.", "substances": ["Biomarkers", "Receptors, Somatostatin"]}, {"pmid": "30368687", "year": "2020", "title": "Medical therapy for non-functioning pituitary tumors-a critical approach.", "summary": "Non-functioning pituitary adenomas (NFPAs) are the second most common variant of pituitary tumors. When symptomatic, primary therapy is surgery. Recurrence rates are high. Since many NFPAs express dopamine and somatostatin receptors, medical therapy has been used after surgery in order to prevent recurrence. So far, dopamine agonists have been more widely tested with some promise when introduced immediately after surgery but with less efficacy when introduced later upon tumor regrowth. Currently, the role of medical therapy to prevent tumor regrowth in NFPAs is limited by imprecisions as to final outcome and uncertainties concerning on patient selection, dosing, duration, and side effects.", "substances": ["Antineoplastic Agents", "Dopamine Agonists", "Receptors, Somatostatin"]}, {"pmid": "30341577", "year": "2020", "title": "Prolactin, prolactin disorders, and dopamine agonists during pregnancy.", "summary": "Pituitary disorders, and especially prolactinomas, are not common among pregnant women, though they tend to occur during a woman's years of fertility. The majority of prolactinoma patients present with infertility and menstruation dysfunction; however, prolactinomas are associated with potentially significant morbidity if they remain unrecognized and untreated. Herein, we survey the role of prolactin and prolactinomas in pregnancy while also outlining the therapeutic approach to prolactinoma during pregnancy. The current literature on the impact of dopamine agonists during pregnancy is also reviewed.", "substances": ["Dopamine Agonists", "Prolactin"]}, {"pmid": "30852578", "year": "2020", "title": "Dopamine Agonists: From the 1970s to Today.", "summary": "The discovery of dopamine inhibitory effects on prolactin secretion has led to an era of successful dopaminergic therapy for prolactinomas. Herein we provide an overview of the evolution of dopamine agonists and their use in patients with PRL-secreting pituitary tumors, starting from the 1970s up to today, highlighting that normalization of PRL levels, restoration of eugonadism, and reduction of tumor mass can be achieved in the majority of patients by treatment with dopamine agonists.", "substances": ["Dopamine Agonists"]}, {"pmid": "30481756", "year": "2020", "title": "Management of Dopamine Agonist-Resistant Prolactinoma.", "summary": "Dopamine agonists are usually very effective in the treatment of prolactinomas. Nonetheless, a subset of individuals does not respond satisfactorily to these agents, and this resistance is characterized by failure to achieve normoprolactinemia and a 30% or more reduction in maximal tumor diameter (in the case of macroprolactinoma) under maximally tolerated doses. The overall prevalence of dopamine agonist resistance is 20-30% for bromocriptine (BRC) and around 10% for cabergoline (CAB). The 2 main predictive factors are male gender and tumor invasiveness. The management of drug-resistant prolactinomas includes several options. Any BRC-resistant patient should be switched to CAB which will normalize prolactin in 80% of patients. As long as adverse effects do not develop, dose escalation of CAB is reasonable, with the expectation that subsequent dose reduction will be possible. Echocardiographic monitoring is advised in such patients because of the potential association with cardiac valvular fibrosis. Also, maintaining maximal CAB doses at 3.5 mg/week may lead to progressive hormonal control in a significant proportion of patients. Complete resistance to CAB is infrequent. In a study of 122 patients with a macroprolactinoma, only 7 (6%) could not achieve control despite maximal CAB doses for > 12 months. A large resistant prolactinoma is also an indication for transsphenoidal neurosurgery, aiming at a debulking which may improve postoperative medical control. For patients who harbor aggressive prolactinomas, radiotherapy may be considered. However, normal prolactinemia will eventually occur in only one-third of patients after many years. Finally, temozolomide may be a therapeutic option in malignant/aggressive prolactinomas.", "substances": ["Dopamine Agonists", "Bromocriptine", "Cabergoline"]}, {"pmid": "30400048", "year": "2019", "title": "Psychological effects of dopamine agonist treatment in patients with hyperprolactinemia and prolactin-secreting adenomas.", "summary": "Background Dopamine agonists (DAs) are the main treatment for patients with hyperprolactinemia and prolactinomas. Recently, an increasing number of reports emphasized DAs' psychological side effects, either de novo or as exacerbations of prior psychiatric disease. Methods Review of prospective and retrospective studies (PubMed 1976, September 2018) evaluating the psychological profile of DA-treated patients with hyperprolactinemia and prolactinomas. Case series and case reports of psychiatric complications were also reviewed. Results Most studies were cross-sectional and had a control group of healthy volunteers or patients with nonfunctioning pituitary adenomas. There were few prospective studies, with/without control group, that included small numbers of patients. Compared with controls, patients with hyperprolactinemia generally had worse quality of life, anxiety, depression and certain personality traits. Patients receiving DAs had higher impulsivity scores than normoprolactinemic controls. Impulse control disorders (ICDs) were reported in both genders, with hypersexuality mostly in men. Multiple ICDs were sometimes reported in the same patient, usually reversible after DA discontinuation. In case reports, DA therapy was temporally associated with severe depression, manic episodes or psychosis, which improved after discontinuation and administration of psychiatric medications. Gender type of DA, dose and duration of therapy did not correlate with occurrence of psychiatric pathology. Conclusion Patients with hyperprolactinemia receiving DAs may develop changes in mood and behavior regardless of prior psychiatric history. Increased awareness for ICDs, depression, mania and other types of psychosis is needed by all physicians who prescribe DAs. Larger prospective controlled clinical studies are needed to delineate prevalence, risk stratification and management.", "substances": ["Dopamine Agonists"]}, {"pmid": "30116971", "year": "2018", "title": "Medically induced CSF rhinorrhea following treatment of macroprolactinoma: case series and literature review.", "summary": "Baseline skull base erosion in macroprolactinomas in combination with subsequent tumor shrinkage induced by DA therapy may result in spontaneous CSF rhinorrhea. Therefore, such patients should be advised about and monitored for this potential setback. Once CSF leak is diagnosed, prompt treatment must be carried out to avoid infectious complications. Transnasal surgery appears the most effective therapeutic approach.", "substances": ["Dopamine Agonists", "Prolactin"]}, {"pmid": "30370442", "year": "2019", "title": "Growth hormone-secreting pituitary macroadenoma presenting concurrently with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma and responding to doxorubicin treatment: case report and review of the literature.", "summary": "We present a case report of a patient who presented with nausea and vomiting, as well as acromegalic features. Following testing, a pituitary adenoma and mediastinal non-Hodgkin's lymphoma were diagnosed. Following two cycles of R-CHOP chemotherapy, imaging showed significant decrease in size of the sellar tumor. Following resection of tumor, both frozen and permanent section revealed only necrotic material. Further research into the potential utility of doxorubicin for the treatment of recurrent or refractory pituitary adenomas may be warranted.", "substances": ["Antibodies, Monoclonal, Murine-Derived", "R-CHOP protocol", "Rituximab", "Vincristine", "Doxorubicin", "Cyclophosphamide", "Growth Hormone", "Prednisone"]}, {"pmid": "30031177", "year": "2018", "title": "Early Recognition and Initiation of Temozolomide Chemotherapy for Refractory, Invasive Pituitary Macroprolactinoma with Long-Term Sustained Remission.", "summary": "We conclude that TMZ can be efficacious in the management of medically and surgically refractory, invasive atypical prolactinomas, resulting in normalization of the prolactin levels and control of the tumor size. We encourage the inclusion of TMZ in the management of refractory, recurrent, and invasive prolactinomas, as a fourth-line treatment strategy, after dopamine agonist treatment, transsphenoidal resection, and radiation therapy. We especially advocate the early use of TMZ for aggressive and otherwise refractory prolactinomas.", "substances": ["Antineoplastic Agents, Alkylating", "Dacarbazine", "Temozolomide"]}, {"pmid": "29654440", "year": "2018", "title": "Management of cystic prolactinomas: a review.", "summary": "Recent studies suggest that dopamine agonist therapy may be an effective and safe treatment option in a considerable portion of patients with cystic prolactinomas. We suggest that dopamine agonists should be considered as a first-line therapy for cystic prolactinoma in the absence of indications for early surgical intervention.", "substances": ["Dopamine Agonists"]}, {"pmid": "29535142", "year": "2019", "title": "65 YEARS OF THE DOUBLE HELIX: Treatment of pituitary tumors with temozolomide: an update.", "summary": "Temozolomide is an alkylating chemotherapeutic agent used in malignant neuroendocrine neoplasia, melanoma, brain metastases and an essential component of adjuvant therapy in the treatment of glioblastoma multiforme and anaplastic astrocytoma. Since 2006, it has been used for the treatment of pituitary carcinomas and aggressive pituitary adenomas. Here, we discuss the current indications and results of temozolomide therapy in pituitary tumors, as well as frequently asked questions regarding temozolomide treatment, duration of therapy, dosage, tumor recurrence and resistance.", "substances": ["Antineoplastic Agents, Alkylating", "Temozolomide"]}, {"pmid": "29339530", "year": "2018", "title": "MANAGEMENT OF ENDOCRINE DISEASE: Personalized medicine in the treatment of acromegaly.", "summary": "Acromegaly is associated with high morbidity and elevated mortality when not adequately treated. Surgery is the first-line treatment for most patients as it is the only one that can lead to immediate cure. In patients who are not cured by surgery, treatment is currently based on a trial-and-error approach. First-generation somatostatin receptor ligands (fg-SRL) are initiated for most patients, although approximately 25% of patients present resistance to this drug class. Some biomarkers of treatment outcome are described in the literature, with the aim of categorizing patients into different groups to individualize their treatments using a personalized approach. In this review, we will discuss the current status of precision medicine for the treatment of acromegaly and future perspectives on the use of personalized medicine for this purpose.", "substances": ["Dopamine Agonists", "Receptors, Somatotropin", "Somatostatin"]}, {"pmid": "29319131", "year": "2018", "title": "Temozolomide therapy for aggressive pituitary Crooke's cell corticotropinoma causing Cushing's Disease - a case report with literature review.", "summary": "The case of our patient suggests that the response to the TMZ treatment monotherapy in aggressive pituitary tumour causing Cushing's Disease could be partial and restricted to 7-8 cycles followed by rapid progression of the tumor mass. Therefore, further research should be carried out with regard to new methods to extend the responsiveness and duration of TMZ treatment and to investigate predictors of responsiveness. < p > < /p >.", "substances": ["Antineoplastic Agents, Alkylating", "Dacarbazine", "Temozolomide"]}, {"pmid": "28468768", "year": "2017", "title": "MANAGEMENT OF ENDOCRINE DISEASE: Present and future perspectives for medical therapy of nonfunctioning pituitary adenomas.", "summary": "In contrast to the clear indication for surgical treatment in symptomatic patients with clinically nonfunctioning pituitary adenomas (NFPA), there are no randomized controlled studies comparing therapeutic strategies such as watchful waiting, irradiation or medical therapy for the management of NFPA after surgery. Further, no medical therapy is currently approved for the treatment of NFPA. In this review, we summarize accumulating data on medications currently approved for secreting pituitary adenomas, used off-label in patients with NFPA. Perspectives on overall treatment optimization and potential future therapies are also detailed.", "substances": ["Antineoplastic Agents"]}, {"pmid": "28622965", "year": "2018", "title": "Tumour-Derived Human Growth Hormone As a Therapeutic Target in Oncology.", "summary": "The growth hormone (GH) and insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF1) axis is the key regulator of longitudinal growth, promoting postnatal bone and muscle growth. The available data suggest that GH expression by tumour cells is associated with the aetiology and progression of various cancers such as endometrial, breast, liver, prostate, and colon cancer. Accordingly there has been increased interest in targeting GH-mediated signal transduction in a therapeutic setting. Because GH has endocrine, autocrine, and paracrine actions, therapeutic strategies will need to take into account systemic and local functions. Activation of related hormone receptors and crosstalk with other signalling pathways are also key considerations.", "substances": ["Antineoplastic Agents", "IGF1 protein, human", "Human Growth Hormone", "Insulin-Like Growth Factor I"]}, {"pmid": "28520590", "year": "2018", "title": "Role of tyrosine kinase inhibitors in the treatment of pituitary tumours: from bench to bedside.", "summary": "Preclinical and clinical models substantiate the role of the EGFR pathway in corticotroph and lactotroph adenomas. Although further study is needed, results to date suggest that targeting the ErbB pathway may be an effective therapeutic approach for patients with aggressive pituitary tumours.", "substances": ["Protein Kinase Inhibitors", "Quinazolines", "Lapatinib", "EGFR protein, human", "ErbB Receptors", "Gefitinib"]}, {"pmid": "27910710", "year": "2017", "title": "Management of a pregnant woman with thyrotropinoma: a case report and review of the literature.", "summary": "The overall positive outcomes of the four cases reported in literature, including this new case, suggest that pregnancy should not be absolutely contraindicated in women with thyrotropinomas. We emphasize the effectiveness of octreotide to control hyperthyroidism, as well as stopping medication when a patient is found to be pregnant. In our case, close observation following octreotide cessation had a positive outcome.", "substances": ["Antineoplastic Agents, Hormonal", "Thyrotropin", "Octreotide"]}, {"pmid": "28742502", "year": "2018", "title": "Temozolomide therapy for resistant prolactin-secreting pituitary adenomas and carcinomas: a systematic review.", "summary": "Pituitary tumors represent 10-15% of all intracranial tumors; of these, prolactinomas account for 40-50% of cases. Prolactinomas usually respond well to dopamine agonists (DA) as first-line therapy. However, treatment resistance remains a concern. Temozolomide (TMZ) is an oral alkylating agent that has shown promise in treating aggressive pituitary adenomas and carcinomas that are resistant to other therapies. To date, no control trials have been undertaken and only single case reports of pituitary tumors treated with TMZ have been published. A systematic literature search was conducted for studies reporting the use of TMZ for the treatment of prolactinomas that were resistant to standard therapy. In total, 42 reported cases were identified and included in our analysis: 23 cases of prolactin-secreting adenomas and 19 of prolactin-secreting carcinomas. Prior to TMZ administration, patients had exhibited tumor progression and had previously undergone various treatments including surgery, radiotherapy, and drug therapy. Tumor shrinkage was reported in 76% of patients. Reduced prolactin levels were observed in 75% of patients, while normalization of prolactin was reported in 8%. TMZ failure occurred in 20.6% of cases. Most patients exhibited no serious adverse effects. In conclusion, TMZ has potential for the treatment of highly aggressive and resistant prolactin-secreting adenomas and carcinomas, as demonstrated by tumor shrinkage or complete response and normalization of hormone hypersecretion, and exhibits good tolerability and few side effects.", "substances": ["Antineoplastic Agents, Alkylating", "Dacarbazine", "Temozolomide"]}, {"pmid": "27581836", "year": "2017", "title": "How effective is temozolomide for treating pituitary tumours and when should it be used?", "summary": "Temozolomide (TMZ) has been shown as an effective treatment option in aggressive pituitary adenomas and carcinomas. This review analyses the published case series and demonstrates 42\u00a0% of patents show a radiological response and 27\u00a0% experience stable disease following TMZ. Prolactinomas and corticotroph tumours respond best to TMZ, showing approximately a 50\u00a0% response rate, with non-functioning tumours responding only half as frequently. Other factors that may predict the tumour's TMZ response include MGMT and MSH status, but neither is sufficiently robust to determine treatment decisions. TMZ has an accepted role in treating pituitary carcinoma and adenomas if radiation and surgery have failed to control tumour growth. To use TMZ on the basis of anticipated future aggression, as a primary therapy, or in preference to radiotherapy remains controversial.", "substances": ["Antineoplastic Agents, Alkylating", "Dacarbazine", "O(6)-Methylguanine-DNA Methyltransferase", "Temozolomide"]}, {"pmid": "27697899", "year": "2017", "title": "Somatostatin analogues in acromegaly and gastroenteropancreatic neuroendocrine tumours: past, present and future.", "summary": "Acromegaly is a hormonal disorder that arises when the pituitary gland secretes excess growth hormone (GH), which in turn stimulates a concomitant increase in serum insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1) levels. Gastroenteropancreatic neuroendocrine tumours (GEP-NET) constitute a heterogeneous group of tumours that can secrete serotonin and a variety of peptide hormones that may cause characteristic symptoms known as carcinoid syndrome or other symptoms and hormonal hypersecretion syndromes depending on the tumour's site of origin. Current medical therapy for the treatment of acromegaly and GEP-NET involves the administration of somatostatin analogues that effectively suppress excess hormone secretion. After its discovery in 1979, octreotide became the first synthetic biologically stable somatostatin analogue with a short-acting formulation of octreotide introduced into clinical practice in the late 1980s. Lanreotide, another somatostatin analogue, became available in the mid-1990s initially as a prolonged-release formulation administered every 10 or 14 days. Long-acting release formulations of both octreotide (Sandostatin LAR and Novartis) and lanreotide (Somatuline Autogel, Ipsen), based on microparticle and nanoparticle drug-delivery technologies, respectively, were later developed, which allowed for once-monthly administration and improved convenience. First-generation somatostatin analogues remain one of the cornerstones of medical therapy in the management of pituitary and GEP-NET hormone hypersecretion, with octreotide having the longest established efficacy and safety profile of the somatostatin analogue class. More recently, pasireotide (Signifor), a next-generation multireceptor-targeted somatostatin analogue, has emerged as an alternative therapeutic option for the treatment of acromegaly. This review summarizes the development and clinical success of somatostatin analogues.", "substances": ["Antineoplastic Agents", "Peptides, Cyclic", "lanreotide", "Somatostatin", "pasireotide", "Octreotide"]}, {"pmid": "27106409", "year": "2017", "title": "Is there a role for early chemotherapy in the management of pituitary adenomas?", "summary": "Pituitary adenomas are benign intracranial neoplasms that are frequently well-controlled with standard treatments that include surgical resection, radiotherapy, and agents that modulate hormonal excess. Unfortunately, a subset of patients remains uncontrolled or develops complications from these interventions. For these patients, chemotherapy is an additional treatment option that could improve outcomes. Temozolomide is an oral chemotherapy with a favorable side-effect profile that has shown activity against pituitary adenomas. Its non-overlapping toxicity and ability to induce rapid tumor regression renders it a potentially important adjunctive treatment. In patients with tumors that cannot be optimally addressed with standard treatments, there may be a role for early initiation of temozolomide.", "substances": ["Antineoplastic Agents", "Dacarbazine", "Temozolomide"]}, {"pmid": "27416004", "year": "2016", "title": "Intracystic bleomycin for cystic craniopharyngiomas in children.", "summary": "Since we identified no RCTs, quasi-randomised trials or CCTs of the treatment of cystic craniopharyngiomas in children in which only the use of intracystic bleomycin differed between the treatment groups, no definitive conclusions could be made about the effects of intracystic bleomycin in these patients. Only one low-power RCT comparing intracystic bleomycin with intracystic (32)P treatment was available, but no definitive conclusions can be made about the effectiveness of these agents in children with cystic craniopharyngiomas. Based on the currently available evidence, we are not able to give recommendations for the use of intracystic bleomycin in the treatment of cystic craniopharyngiomas in children. High-quality RCTs are needed.", "substances": ["Antibiotics, Antineoplastic", "Phosphorus Radioisotopes", "Bleomycin"]}, {"pmid": "26519143", "year": "2017", "title": "Interpreting biochemical control response rates with first-generation somatostatin analogues in acromegaly.", "summary": "The wide range of reported response rates with somatostatin analogues may be confusing and could lead to misinterpretation by both the patient and the physician in certain situations. Understanding the factors that potentially drive the variation in response rates should allow clinicians to better gauge treatment expectations in specific patients.", "substances": ["Antineoplastic Agents, Hormonal", "Peptides, Cyclic", "lanreotide", "Human Growth Hormone", "Somatostatin", "Insulin-Like Growth Factor I", "Octreotide"]}, {"pmid": "26290466", "year": "2016", "title": "The effects of somatostatin analogue therapy on pituitary tumor volume in patients with acromegaly.", "summary": "Somatostatin analogues (first- or second-line treatment) are the mainstay of medical therapy and, as first-line medical therapy, are associated with significant pituitary TVR in most patients.", "substances": ["Antineoplastic Agents, Hormonal", "Peptides, Cyclic", "lanreotide", "Somatostatin", "pasireotide", "Octreotide"]}, {"pmid": "26698564", "year": "2016", "title": "The pituitary TGF\u03b21 system as a novel target for the treatment of resistant prolactinomas.", "summary": "Prolactinomas are the most frequently observed pituitary adenomas and most of them respond well to conventional treatment with dopamine agonists (DAs). However, a subset of prolactinomas fails to respond to such therapies and is considered as DA-resistant prolactinomas (DARPs). New therapeutic approaches are necessary for these tumors. Transforming growth factor \u03b21 (TGF\u03b21) is a known inhibitor of lactotroph cell proliferation and prolactin secretion, and it partly mediates dopamine inhibitory action. TGF\u03b21 is secreted to the extracellular matrix as an inactive latent complex, and its bioavailability is tightly regulated by different components of the TGF\u03b21 system including latent binding proteins, local activators (thrombospondin-1, matrix metalloproteases, integrins, among others), and TGF\u03b2 receptors. Pituitary TGF\u03b21 activity and the expression of different components of the TGF\u03b21 system are regulated by dopamine and estradiol. Prolactinomas (animal models and humans) present reduced TGF\u03b21 activity as well as reduced expression of several components of the TGF\u03b21 system. Therefore, restoration of TGF\u03b21 inhibitory activity represents a novel therapeutic approach to bypass dopamine action in DARPs. The aim of this review is to summarize the large literature supporting TGF\u03b21 important role as a local modulator of pituitary lactotroph function and to provide recent evidence of the restoration of TGF\u03b21 activity as an effective treatment in experimental prolactinomas. ", "substances": ["Dopamine Agonists", "Transforming Growth Factor beta1", "Estradiol", "Prolactin", "Dopamine"]}, {"pmid": "26812771", "year": "2017", "title": "Long-term first line medical treatment in a 4-year-old girl with Xq26.3 microduplication-negative somatotropinoma. Case report and literature review.", "summary": "Growth hormone (GH) secreting adenoma represents a therapeutic challenge in childhood. Because of its rarity no treatment guidelines are available and pediatric management often results from recommendations issued for adults. We report a case of a 4-year-old girl with somatotropinoma successfully treated with only medical treatment. She presented with tall stature and history of growth acceleration. Imaging and laboratory confirmed the diagnosis of GH secreting macroadenoma. She started medical treatment with a somatostatin analogue and a dopamine agonist. During an 8-year follow-up period, a good clinical control of the disease and a shrinkage of the adenoma have been demonstrated. At the last observation she achieved normal near-adult height and pubertal development. According to our experience and limited literature evidences, first line treatment with somatostatin analogues can be attempted in patients with somatotropinoma. This approach seems to be able to control the clinical course of the disease, allowing to postpone transphenoidal surgery to adult age or to avoid it. ", "substances": ["Dopamine Agonists", "Human Growth Hormone"]}, {"pmid": "26610414", "year": "2016", "title": "New therapeutic agents for acromegaly.", "summary": "The currently available somatostatin receptor ligands (SRLs) and growth hormone (GH) antagonists are used to control levels of GH and insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1) in patients with acromegaly. However, these therapies are limited by wide variations in efficacy, associated adverse effects and the need for frequent injections. A phase III trial of oral octreotide capsules demonstrated that this treatment can safely sustain suppressed levels of GH and IGF-1 and reduce the severity of symptoms in patients with acromegaly previously controlled by injectable SRL therapy, with the added benefit of no injection-site reactions. Phase I and phase II trials of the pan-selective SRL DG3173, the liquid crystal octreotide depot CAM2029 and an antisense oligonucleotide directed against the GH receptor have shown that these agents can be used to achieve biochemical suppression in acromegaly and have favourable safety profiles. This Review outlines the need for new therapeutic agents for patients with acromegaly, reviews clinical trial data of investigational agents and considers how these therapies might best be integrated into clinical practice. ", "substances": ["ATL 227446", "Antineoplastic Agents, Hormonal", "Oligonucleotides", "PTR 3173", "Peptides, Cyclic", "RNA, Antisense", "Receptors, Somatotropin", "lanreotide", "Human Growth Hormone", "Somatostatin", "Insulin-Like Growth Factor I", "pegvisomant", "Octreotide"]}, {"pmid": "26855238", "year": "2016", "title": "The safety of treatments for prolactinomas.", "summary": "DA are safe and well tolerated, and the main safety concerns are related to the potential risk of clinically relevant valvulopathy following treatment with CAB, rarely occurring in patients with prolactinomas.", "substances": ["Antineoplastic Agents", "Dopamine Agonists", "Ergolines", "Cabergoline"]}, {"pmid": "26336835", "year": "2016", "title": "Treating prolactinomas with dopamine agonists: always worth the gamble?", "summary": "Dopamine agonists are the treatment of choice for all patients with prolactinomas. They are generally safe, effective, and well-tolerated. However, a link between their use and the development of impulse control disorders has been well recognized in the field of neurology for some time, and evidence for a similar effect in endocrine patients is emerging. This has mainly been revealed through clinical case reports, plus a small number of comparative studies of varying robustness. We review the current available literature and discuss the implications for clinical practice, in particular emphasizing the need for clinicians to be alert to these uncommon but serious adverse effects. ", "substances": ["Dopamine Agonists"]}, {"pmid": "27745780", "year": "2018", "title": "New medical therapies of acromegaly.", "summary": "Acromegaly is a rare disease associated with significant morbidity and increased mortality. Treatment of acromegaly aims at controlling growth hormone hypersecretion, improving patients' symptoms and comorbidities and normalizing mortality. The therapeutic options for acromegaly include surgery, medical therapies and radiotherapy. However, despite all these treatment options, approximately one-half of patients are not adequately controlled. Progress in molecular research has made possible to develop new therapeutic strategies to improve control of acromegaly. This article will review the new medical approaches to acromegaly which consist in evolution of traditional therapeutic protocols and development of new molecules with different profiles of activity.", "substances": ["Antineoplastic Agents, Hormonal", "Dopamine Agonists", "Ergolines", "Recombinant Fusion Proteins", "SXN101959", "Human Growth Hormone", "Somatostatin", "pasireotide", "Botulinum Toxins", "Cabergoline", "pegvisomant", "Octreotide"]}, {"pmid": "25466526", "year": "2016", "title": "The need for annual echocardiography to detect cabergoline-associated valvulopathy in patients with prolactinoma: a systematic review and additional clinical data.", "summary": "Present recommendations by the US Food and Drug Administration advise that patients with prolactinoma treated with cabergoline should have an annual echocardiogram to screen for valvular heart disease. Here, we present new clinical data and a systematic review of the scientific literature showing that the prevalence of cabergoline-associated valvulopathy is very low. We prospectively assessed 40 patients with prolactinoma taking cabergoline. Cardiovascular examination before echocardiography detected an audible systolic murmur in 10% of cases (all were functional murmurs), and no clinically significant valvular lesion was shown on echocardiogram in the 90% of patients without a murmur. Our systematic review identified 21 studies that assessed the presence of valvular abnormalities in patients with prolactinoma treated with cabergoline. Including our new clinical data, only two (0\u00b711%) of 1811 patients were confirmed to have cabergoline-associated valvulopathy (three [0\u00b717%] if possible cases were included). The probability of clinically significant valvular heart disease is low in the absence of a murmur. On the basis of these findings, we challenge the present recommendations to do routine echocardiography in all patients taking cabergoline for prolactinoma every 12 months. We propose that such patients should be screened by a clinical cardiovascular examination and that echocardiogram should be reserved for those patients with an audible murmur, those treated for more than 5 years at a dose of more than 3 mg per week, or those who maintain cabergoline treatment after the age of 50 years. ", "substances": ["Antineoplastic Agents", "Dopamine Agonists", "Ergolines", "Cabergoline"]}, {"pmid": "26136383", "year": "2015", "title": "60 YEARS OF NEUROENDOCRINOLOGY: Acromegaly.", "summary": "Acromegaly (ACM) is a chronic, progressive disorder caused by the persistent hypersecretion of GH, in the vast majority of cases secreted by a pituitary adenoma. The consequent increase in IGF1 (a GH-induced liver protein) is responsible for most clinical features and for the systemic complications associated with increased mortality. The clinical diagnosis, based on symptoms related to GH excess or the presence of a pituitary mass, is often delayed many years because of the slow progression of the disease. Initial testing relies on measuring the serum IGF1 concentration. The oral glucose tolerance test with concomitant GH measurement is the gold-standard diagnostic test. The therapeutic options for ACM are surgery, medical treatment, and radiotherapy (RT). The outcome of surgery is very good for microadenomas (80-90% cure rate), but at least half of the macroadenomas (most frequently encountered in ACM patients) are not cured surgically. Somatostatin analogs are mainly indicated after surgical failure. Currently their routine use as primary therapy is not recommended. Dopamine agonists are useful in a minority of cases. Pegvisomant is indicated for patients refractory to surgery and other medical treatments. RT is employed sparingly, in cases of persistent disease activity despite other treatments, due to its long-term side effects. With complex, combined treatment, at least three-quarters of the cases are controlled according to current criteria. With proper control of the disease, the specific complications are partially improved and the mortality rate is close to that of the background population. ", "substances": ["Human Growth Hormone"]}, {"pmid": "25772801", "year": "2016", "title": "The role of temozolomide in the treatment of aggressive pituitary tumors.", "summary": "Pituitary tumors are amongst the most common intracranial neoplasms and are generally benign. However, some pituitary tumors exhibit clinically aggressive behavior that is characterized by tumor recurrence and continued progression despite repeated treatments with conventional surgical, radiation and medical therapies. More recently, temozolomide, a second generation oral alkylating agent, has shown therapeutic promise for aggressive pituitary adenomas and carcinomas with favorable clinical and radiographic responses. Temozolomide causes DNA damage by methylation of the O(6) position of guanine, which results in potent cytotoxic DNA adducts and consequently, tumor cell apoptosis. The degree of MGMT expression appears to be inversely related to therapeutic responsiveness to temozolomide with a significant number of temozolomide-sensitive pituitary tumors exhibiting low MGMT expression. The presence of high MGMT expression appears to mitigate the effectiveness of temozolomide and this has been used as a marker in several studies to predict the efficacy of temozolomide. Recent evidence also suggests that mutations in mismatch repair proteins such as MSH6 could render pituitary tumors resistant to temozolomide. In this article, the authors review the development of temozolomide, its biochemistry and interaction with O(6)-methylguanine-DNA methyltransferase (MGMT), its role in adjuvant treatment of aggressive pituitary neoplasms, and future works that could influence the efficacy of temozolomide therapy. ", "substances": ["Antineoplastic Agents, Alkylating", "Tumor Suppressor Proteins", "Dacarbazine", "DNA Modification Methylases", "MGMT protein, human", "DNA Repair Enzymes", "Temozolomide"]}, {"pmid": "25560275", "year": "2015", "title": "Medical therapy for Cushing's disease: adrenal steroidogenesis inhibitors and glucocorticoid receptor blockers.", "summary": "Morbidity and mortality in Cushing's disease (CD) patients are increased if patients are not appropriately treated. Surgery remains the first line therapy, however the role of medical therapy has become more prominent in patients when biochemical remission is not achieved/or recurs after surgery, while waiting effects of radiation therapy or when surgery is contraindicated. Furthermore, use of preoperative medical therapy has been also recognized. In addition to centrally acting therapies (reviewed elsewhere in this special issue), adrenal steroidogenesis inhibitors, and glucocorticoid receptor antagonists are frequently used. A PubMed search of all original articles or abstracts detailing medical therapy in CD, published within 12 months (2013-2014), were identified and pertinent data extracted. Although not prospectively studied, ketoconazole and metyrapone have been the most frequently used medical therapies. A large retrospective ketoconazole study showed that almost half of patients who continued on ketoconazole therapy achieved biochemical control and clinical improvement; however almost 20% discontinued ketoconazole due to poor tolerability. Notably, hepatotoxicity was usually mild and resolved after drug withdrawal. Etomidate remains the only drug available for intravenous use. A new potent inhibitor of both aldosterone synthase and 11\u03b2-hydroxylase, following the completion of a phase II study LCI699 is being studied in a large phase III with promising results. Mifepristone, a glucocorticoid receptor antagonist, has been approved for hyperglycemia associated with Cushing's syndrome based on the results of a prospective study where it produced in the majority of patients' significant clinical and metabolic improvement. Absence of both a biochemical marker for remission and/or diagnosis of adrenal insufficiency remain, however, a limiting factor. Patient characteristics and preference should guide the choice between different medications in the absence of clinical trials comparing any of these therapies. Despite significant progress, there is still a need for a medical therapy that is more effective and with less adverse effects for patients with CD.", "substances": ["Adrenal Cortex Hormones", "Antineoplastic Agents, Hormonal", "Cytochrome P-450 CYP3A Inhibitors", "Hormone Antagonists", "Receptors, Glucocorticoid"]}, {"pmid": "25716461", "year": "2016", "title": "Treatment of invasive silent somatotroph pituitary adenoma with temozolomide. Report of a case and review of the literature.", "summary": "Improved imaging techniques have contributed to increased diagnosis of pituitary tumors. These tumor types can be microadenomas or macroadenomas and can either be functional or non-functional. Atypical or aggressive pituitary adenomas are tumors that rapidly increase in size and may invade into the suprasellar or parasellar regions. They are characterized by a Ki-67 nuclear labeling index greater than 10\u00a0%. Management of these tumors is difficult, and many recur after surgery. Temozolomide, a second generation alkylating agent, has been showing promising results in the treatment of these tumors. The patient was a 39-year-old male diagnosed with an invasive silent somatotroph pituitary macroadenoma treated with temozolomide after surgery. We present the case along with the review of the literature of the therapeutic effects of temozolomide in somatotroph macroadenomas. ", "substances": ["Antineoplastic Agents, Alkylating", "Dacarbazine", "Temozolomide"]}, {"pmid": "25627118", "year": "2015", "title": "Pituitary-directed medical therapy in Cushing's disease.", "summary": "Transsphenoidal surgery remains the first line therapy in Cushing's disease, but a large number of patients will not be cured or disease will recur over time. Repeat pituitary surgery, bilateral adrenalectomy, and radiation have limitations with respect to efficacy and/or side effects. Therefore, there is a clear need for an effective medical treatment. The studies reviewed here suggest a role for pituitary-directed therapies, applying multireceptor ligand somatostatin analogs like pasireotide or second-generation dopamine agonists. Retinoic acid has been also studied in a small prospective study. These compounds target ACTH-secretion at the pituitary level and possibly inhibit corticotrope proliferation. Specific side effects of these compounds need to be considered, especially when used as long-term therapy. These novel approaches could provide options for treatment of patients in whom surgery has failed or is not possible, and while awaiting effects of radiation therapy. Preoperative use to decrease cortisol excess, potentially reducing perioperative complications, needs to be further studied.", "substances": ["Antineoplastic Agents", "Dopamine Agonists", "Somatostatin", "Tretinoin"]}, {"pmid": "25612787", "year": "2015", "title": "New potential targets for treatment of Cushing's disease: epithelial growth factor receptor and cyclin-dependent kinases.", "summary": "Accumulating evidence demonstrates that EGFR and cyclin E-CDK2 may be promising targets for treating ACTHomas.", "substances": ["Antineoplastic Agents", "Protein Kinase Inhibitors", "EGFR protein, human", "ErbB Receptors", "Cyclin-Dependent Kinases"]}]}